Te Whānau Māori me ō mahi: Guidance on Māori cultural competencies for providers (Version 4, May 2026)

Summary

This document offers practical guidance to support providers and suppliers to deliver culturally safe care to ACC kiritaki and enable equitable outcomes. It is a tool to help them to meet the requirements of ACC's Kawa Whakaruruhau (Cultural Safety) policy and is in line with relevant professional and national health standards.

Māori continue to experience less access to primary healthcare, hospital care, and accident and disability support services. ACC claims data consistently shows that Māori experience a higher risk of a serious injury but are overall less likely to lodge a claim than non-Māori. Māori who lodge a claim are less likely to receive appropriate care such as high-tech imaging, elective surgery and clinical services.

Kawa Whakaruruhau - ACC's cultural safety requirements

The ACC Kawa Whakaruruhau (Cultural Safety) Policy applies to all contracted providers, including workers who have direct contact with kiritaki Māori and those in supporting roles such as managers or administrators and leaders. Kawa Whakaruruhau outlines expectations that providers must meet to address the needs of kiritaki Māori and whānau to achieve cultural safety.

Under the ACC Kawa Whakaruruhau (Cultural Safety) policy, providers and suppliers are required to embed culturally safe principles across their workplace. Providers and suppliers can evidence this in the following ways:
- evidence regular cultural safety training and performance monitoring for all kaimahi
- evidence cultural safety activities incorporating personal self-reflection as part of kaimahi training and CPD and other workforce development activities
- evidence cultural safety as required for accreditation or certification
- implement regular monitoring of services and assessment of potential inequities in health outcomes for kiritaki and whānau
- provide guidance to managers and administrative staff of their roles in implementing cultural safety and supporting kaimahi to participate in training and review activities.

Practical guidance

Cultural safety core components:
1. Recognise and respect diverse understandings of health, cultural practices, family structures and social supports.
2. Recognise how marginalisation and privilege shape access to, delivery of, and outcomes from health care.
3. Eliminate bias and discrimination within health care practice, teaching, research, workforce development, leadership and data use.
4. Follow national protocols for the accurate collection, classification and analysis of ethnicity data, and assess the effectiveness of professional practice by ethnicity.
5. Demonstrate evidence of continuous improvement through ongoing critical self-reflection, peer and community feedback, and measurable progress towards equity.

Cultural competency core components:
1. Understand that culture influences health beliefs, behaviours and outcomes, and that culture itself is dynamic.
2. Reflect on one's own cultural identity, values, assumptions and their influence on practice.
3. Recognise and respect the cultural worldviews and preferences of patients, colleagues and communities, avoiding stereotyping or cultural appropriation.
4. Develop and maintain cultural knowledge and skills through continuing education, supervision and partnership with cultural experts.
5. Regularly evaluate cultural competence, identify learning needs, and seek guidance or cultural expertise when appropriate.

Supporting kiritaki Māori

The impact of prior experiences: all patients, including kiritaki Māori, will have expectations and perceptions of care that are formed from their own experiences and the experiences of whānau. Past and current experiences may also influence decisions on whether to seek assistance, follow care recommendations, or provide feedback on healthcare interactions.

Tikanga Māori: the customs and protocols that have guided Māori over generations collectively form what is known as tikanga or tikanga Māori. Tikanga Māori serves as a means of social control, a normative system, an ethical framework, a repository of Māori knowledge, and a body of customary lore. At a time of heightened concern because of injury, tikanga Māori may guide interactions with health and rehabilitation providers.

Communication - a key issue: studies from around the world confirm that kiritaki place the most importance on providers' communication skills. Mispronunciation of Māori names and words can be jarring to Māori and, if continued without self-correction, implies a lack of respect for Māori.

Supporting the preferences of whānau Māori

Initial contact:
- The appropriate use of space and time is important at first contact to give time for kiritaki Māori and their whānau to get to know the provider.
- All providers or kaimahi should introduce themselves and explain their role to the kiritaki and their whānau.
- It is very important to pronounce Māori names correctly or ask when unsure. For many people, names are connections to the past and the present, so getting this right is a mark of respect.
- Rushing the first meeting or not allowing sufficient time for kanohi ki te kanohi (face-to-face) interaction can negatively impact relationships and, therefore, the joint understanding of treatment plans between the provider and kiritaki.

Collecting or imparting information: providers need to use plain language; identify what people know or do not know so that new information builds on prior knowledge; carefully explain referrals to unfamiliar health services; offer information in several ways to ensure that understanding is achieved; be aware that for many Māori, the preferred method of exchanging information is kanohi ki te kanohi, supplemented with written materials and diagrams; check that kiritaki and whānau have been given sufficient information that makes sense to them before leaving the consultation.

Whānau support: the attendance of whānau at appointments to support kiritaki Māori should be encouraged to enhance communication and facilitate mutual understanding.

The head: in many cultures, the head has special significance. Before examining or touching another person's body (including the head), providers must explain the purpose of the examination and obtain permission.

Eye contact: for Māori, making direct eye contact can be a sign of disrespect, especially when directed toward authority figures. During a consult with kiritaki and whānau Māori, it may be appropriate to avoid prolonged eye contact and to look at a neutral point in the room as a sign of respect.

Karakia (blessings/prayer): if kiritaki Māori or their whānau want to recite karakia before a procedure or at times of heightened concern, such as before the administration of blood products, this should be supported.

Support for kiritaki: ask kiritaki Māori and their whānau if they have any particular cultural, spiritual, language or other needs, and document these. Provide verbal and written information and support regarding the complaint procedures.

Pain: pain is one of the most common symptoms encountered by treatment and rehabilitation providers. Studies of pain behaviours emphasise the need to be wary of cultural or ethnic stereotypes. While there may be cultural differences, it is always important to assess each person individually.

Glossary of important terms (selected)

Equity: the absence of unfair, avoidable or remediable differences in healthcare access and health outcomes among groups of people.
Cultural competence: the acquisition of attitudes, skills, and knowledge to function effectively and respectfully when working with and treating people from a range of cultural backgrounds.
Cultural safety: providers and organisations engage in ongoing reflection, holding themselves accountable for providing culturally safe care, as defined by the patient and communities.
Hapori Māori: Māori communities. Hapū: sub-tribe, clan. Hui: meeting - formal and informal. Kaimahi: staff, work colleagues. Kanohi ki te kanohi: face-to-face. Karakia: prayer, blessings, incantations. Kaumātua: an elder. Kaupapa: a policy, plan, theme, purpose, scheme, or proposal. Kiritaki: client - this document refers to injured persons who are ACC clients. Kiritaki Māori: Māori client(s). Kuia: an elder (female). Manuhiri: the visitors or guests. Whānau: immediate and extended family. Whanaungatanga: establishing a sense of family/whānau connection or friendships. Whakataukī: proverb.

Source: ACC8383, "Te Whānau Māori me ō mahi: Guidance on Māori cultural competencies for providers", Version 4, May 2026, www.acc.co.nz/assets/provider/acc-te-whanau-maori-me-o-mahi-guidance.pdf.
