
--- PAGE 1 ---
A handbook for providers working under 
the Cost of Treatment Regulations
Working together

--- PAGE 2 ---
By working together, we can help provide our clients 
with the treatment and rehabilitation they need to get 
back to everyday life.
To work together effectively and in our clients’ best interests, we 
need to define and align our expectations for our clients.
As a provider working under the Cost of Treatment Regulations, 
this document outlines our expectations of your role and provides 
more detailed information on:
•	
our regulations, policies and procedures
•	
the types of injuries we cover
•	
ensuring necessary and appropriate treatment.
Cost of Treatment Regulations are the legislated rates we pay 
providers who don’t hold a specific contract with us. ACC pays a 
specified contribution to treatment costs for treatment providers 
listed in the AC definitions and operating within their scope of 
practice.
We look forward to working with you.
Our purpose
ACC is a Crown entity that provides 
comprehensive, no-fault personal injury 
cover for New Zealanders and visitors to 
the country, as set out in the Accident 
Compensation Act 2001 (AC Act).
Our three core functions are to:
1.	
help prevent injuries at work, at home, 
during sport and recreation, on the 
road, or injuries caused by treatment
2.	 reduce the physical, emotional and 
social impacts of people’s injuries
3.	 minimise personal financial loss by 
paying contributions to treatment costs, 
and paying lump sum compensation or 
weekly compensation to people who 
can’t work because of their injuries.
This handbook is for acupuncturists, chiropractors, general 
practitioners, nurses, nurse practitioners, osteopaths, 
physiotherapists, podiatrists and other ACC-registered health 
providers who deliver treatment funded under the Cost of Treatment 
Regulations. It explains ACC’s expectations for treatment providers, 
including how to ensure care is clinically justified, goal-focused, and 
meets the requirements of the Accident Compensation Act 2001. 
Who this 
handbook 
is for
1

--- PAGE 3 ---
As a provider of treatment services, we expect you to:
•	
provide our clients with services that are goal 
oriented, based on evidence, and clinically justified
•	
comply with your professional standards and ethics
•	
comply with the requirements of the Privacy Act 
2020 and the Health Information Privacy Code 
2020 to protect our clients’ information
•	
comply with the Children’s Act 2014 by confirming 
your children’s worker safety check status with us, 
and providing the required evidence to us, when 
requested, if you are a children’s worker.
In carrying out our functions, we must ensure 
we protect the sustainability of the Accident 
Compensation (AC) scheme for all New Zealanders.
This means when we provide funding to you to deliver 
treatment services under the scheme, we expect you to:
•	
comply with the AC Act, our policies and 
procedures
•	
maintain appropriate clinical records
•	
invoice us appropriately.
You can download the legislation below or search for it 
on the New Zealand Legislation website.
	
→Accident Compensation Act 2001 (PDF 1.9MB)
	
→Privacy Act 2020
	
→Health Information Privacy Code 2020 (PDF)
	
→Children’s Act 2014
	
→Children’s (Requirements for Safety Checks of 
Children’s Workers) Regulations 2015
In return, we will:
•	
pay you promptly for all necessary and appropriate 
services
•	
support you to make sure our clients get the help 
they need to recover
•	
provide support to help you understand our 
legislation, policies and procedures
•	
provide timely feedback if we have concerns about 
service delivery, documentation or invoicing
•	
work with you to address any concerns.
Our expectations 
and responsibilities
Carefully review the sections in this handbook. The ‘Managing performance’ section on page 10 outlines how 
we work with you to ensure you meet our expectations. If you don’t meet these requirements, we may change 
the way we work with you.
2

--- PAGE 4 ---
Our governing legislation, regulations, 
contracts and policies
In line with the AC Act, we have created policies and 
procedures to help us deliver the necessary outcomes 
of the legislation.
You can find more information on our policies, 
procedures and guidelines in the health providers 
section of the ACC website. We encourage you to 
familiarise yourself with these resources, particularly 
our position statements which clarify our expectations 
for treatment providers.
Resources
	
→Guidance on Māori Cultural Competencies
	
→Kawa Whakaruruhau (Cultural Safety) Policy
	
→Our Position Statements
We fund over $4 billion of treatment and rehabilitation 
services per year (2024) in the following ways:
•	
the Accident Compensation (Liability to Pay or 
Contribute to Cost of Treatment) Regulations – 
this is our default purchasing option covering 
mostly minor injuries
•	
under contract
•	
through Public Health Acute Services (PHAS).
Major health sector frameworks
The The Health Practitioners Competence Assurance 
(HPCA) Act ensures the competence and compliance 
of health practitioners for the duration of their 
professional lives. Having one legislative framework 
enables consistent procedures and terminology across 
the many professions now regulated by the Act.
Standards set by professional bodies
Our legislation requires all treatment providers to be 
registered with their regulatory authorities and to hold 
current Annual Practising Certificates.
We also expect you to comply with the professional 
and practice standards set by your board or 
professional organisation.
The Treaty of Waitangi
ACC is committed to ensuring that services are 
provided in a manner that enables the Crown to fulfil 
its obligations under the Treaty of Waitangi | Te Tiriti 
o Waitangi. 
Key elements governing 
our relationship
3

--- PAGE 5 ---
We receive approximately two million claims a year for personal 
injuries including mental injuries.
Personal injuries include:
•	
physical injuries (including fatal injuries)
•	
work-related gradual process injuries, diseases and infections, 
for example asbestosis or work-related hearing loss
•	
treatment injuries — physical injuries sustained while receiving 
treatment from registered health practitioners
•	
maternal birth injuries — specific injuries that happened during 
labour or delivery of a pēpi (baby) on or from 1 October 2022.
Mental injuries may be covered if they 
were caused by a physical injury, a specific 
event in the workplace, or sexual assault or 
abuse.
If you are unsure about advising your 
clients about possible ACC cover, call us 
on 0800 222 070.
What ACC covers
4

--- PAGE 6 ---
Establishing whether 
a client has cover
As a healthcare provider, you have a crucial role in 
providing everyone in New Zealand with access to our 
benefits.
In establishing whether a client’s injury is likely to be 
covered, you should ask the following questions:
•	
Has there been a single event accident – or a 
series of events leading to the injury?
•	
Was the injury a result of an accident?
•	
How did the injury happen?
•	
What is the injury?
We manage all claims under the Code of ACC 
Claimants’ Rights. You can find this on the New 
Zealand Legislation website.
Under the AC Act, we can only accept claims for 
injuries that happened as a result of an accident. 
Learn more about claims and cover on our webpage. 
Your clinical notes must show your clients have sustained 
their physical injuries through accidents and that you 
can make explicit links between the injuries and the 
accidents. Symptoms such as pain and swelling aren’t 
always the result of injuries caused by accidents, and we 
can’t cover conditions caused wholly or substantially by 
the ageing process or pre-existing conditions.
We only cover accidents and injuries that have 
happened in New Zealand and, in some cases, to 
New Zealand residents injured overseas who intend 
to return to New Zealand within six months of having 
left the country. Temporary visitors to New Zealand are 
covered because the no-fault cover means they don’t 
have the right to sue for accidental injuries.
If you think, based on your assessment, that the 
presenting condition isn’t accident-related, it’s 
important you explain this to your client and support 
them in other ways.
You can find more information about how you can 
support them on our website.
	
→Sorting out problems with a claim
	
→Code of ACC Claimant’s Rights
Cause of the injury
Most commonly, people are injured as a result of a 
single event, such as falling off a ladder. However, 
things can get complicated when someone is injured 
as the result of an accident involving a series of events, 
for example developing lumbar pain after being 
repeatedly shunted from behind in two hours of go-
kart racing.
Series of events
If a client provides a clinical history that appears to be 
consistent with an injury caused by a series of events, 
you need to check that:
•	
the events happened over a defined period of time
•	
you have knowledge and evidence that the series 
of events caused a specific injury
•	
the specific injury was caused by the series of 
events rather than factors that are a normal part of 
daily life for the client.

5

--- PAGE 7 ---
Gradual process injuries
Gradual process injuries are injuries or conditions that 
happen over time and can only be covered by ACC if 
they are caused by the type of paid work your client 
does.
The key differences between gradual process injuries 
and series-of-events injuries are:
•	
gradual process injuries typically occur over a 
poorly defined period of time
•	
knowledge of the events causing gradual process 
injuries can’t be reasonably established.
If you’re unsure whether your client qualifies for cover, 
we recommend you use your best judgement, compile 
a comprehensive clinical history, and submit a claim for 
our consideration.
Gradual process injuries can only be lodged by 
medical practitioners. If you aren’t a medical 
practitioner, you need to refer your client to their GP to 
lodge the claim.
Treatment injuries
Sometimes a patient can be injured while receiving 
treatment from a registered health professional. 
Adverse outcomes can happen as a normal part of 
treatment, but sometimes things might not go as 
expected. In these cases, a claim may be covered if the 
injury isn’t a necessary part or ordinary consequence 
of treatment.
Defining treatment
The term ‘treatment’ can be quite broad and mean 
many things in a health context. Because of that, we 
rely on our legislation, the Accident Compensation Act 
2001, to help us decide on cover. Section 33 sets out 
what constitutes treatment, including:
•	
administering treatment or prophylaxis
•	
diagnosing a medical condition
•	
decisions relating to treatment
•	
failing to provide treatment or provide it in a timely 
manner
•	
obtaining or failing to obtain consent from a 
person to undergo treatment
•	
equipment failure (except fair wear and tear)
•	
use of policies, process and support systems which 
support treatment.
Criteria for cover
Once a claim is lodged with the patient’s consent, 
it needs to meet certain criteria before it can be 
accepted.
This includes:
•	
whether the treatment was provided by, or at the 
direction of, a registered health professional
•	
evidence of an injury which has resulted in bodily 
harm or damage
•	
that the injury was caused by treatment, not an 
underlying condition.
	
→Lodging a treatment injury claim
6

--- PAGE 8 ---
As a medical practitioner or nurse practitioner you can 
issue a medical certificate when your patient’s ability to 
work is affected by a covered injury.
This can be completed on the ACC45 claim form 
at the time of claim lodgement (for up to 14 days) 
or the ACC18 medical certificate for longer periods. 
Medical certification is required for your patient to 
access financial support (weekly compensation) and 
vocational rehabilitation through ACC if they’re eligible. 
Getting medical certification right is important. 
Evidence shows that returning to work—even in a 
modified capacity—has significant benefits for both 
physical and mental health. Extended time off work 
can negatively impact wellbeing, and prolonged 
worklessness is linked to poorer health outcomes.
Three types of certification
Fully Fit
Your patient can return to their pre-injury work duties 
and hours. They can still receive treatment and other 
rehabilitation support from ACC.
Fit for Selected Work
Your patient can’t return to full duties but can do some 
work or rehabilitation with support. This could include 
amended duties, altered hours, workplace adaptations, 
and phased return to work. Most patients in the 
community will qualify for Fit for Selected Work.
Patients may be eligible for up to 100% of their 
pre-injury income through a combination of weekly 
compensation and work-related income.
Fully Unfit
Your patient is unable to work because their injury means: 
•	
they are hospitalised, or confined to bed 
•	
they are at risk of contagion, or need to quarantine 
•	
their injury creates clear health and safety risks at 
work to themselves or their colleagues.
Your patient may be eligible for weekly compensation 
(usually up to 80% of pre-injury earnings) and 
treatment, but being fully unfit may influence what 
other rehabilitation they can be referred for by ACC. 
Additional resources for certifying providers
	
→Bpacnz’s Recovery at Work: reframing the 
conversation
	
→ACC issuing medical certificates
	
→HealthPathway communities – available in all 
regions – search ACC
Getting medical 
certification right
7

--- PAGE 9 ---
All treatment you provide must be proportional to each 
client’s injury and expected recovery. According to the 
AC Act, any treatment you provide must:
•	
be necessary and appropriate
•	
meet the quality required
•	
be given the appropriate number of times, and ‘in 
person’
•	
be given at the appropriate time and place
•	
be reasonably required to facilitate treatment (for 
ancillary services)
•	
be of a type normally provided by your profession
•	
be provided by an appropriately qualified treatment 
provider holding a current annual practising 
certificate
•	
if required, have our prior approval.
Find more information about seeking prior approval 
and treatment extensions on our website.
Making sure treatment is 
necessary and appropriate
Clinical records are a necessary part of the service 
you provide to our clients. Your clinical records help us 
understand how you have reached your conclusions 
and why you provided specific treatment to our clients.
Your client reports and treatment notes should be full 
and accurate. They should be completed at the time of 
treatment or shortly afterwards.
Keeping a high professional standard of records is 
critical and beneficial to you, our clients, other health 
professionals and us. The quality of your notes may 
be important if a client is referred to other health 
providers, if their ACC cover is contested or if we need 
to review your practice. Your clinical records must 
show that appropriate treatment has been provided for 
the services you invoice to us.
All professional bodies endorse the responsibility of 
their members to regard record-keeping as a critical 
area of competence, and most have processes to 
support and encourage this. Each profession also has 
its own standards for record-keeping, so check what 
your professional body suggests.
When we find absent or poor quality clinical records, 
we may notify your Regulatory Authority if we believe 
there is a risk of harm to the public.
Keeping 
clinical records
8

--- PAGE 10 ---
Consultations are defined as a necessary and 
appropriate, face-to-face assessment, treatment or 
service for a covered injury.
It includes providing injury-related advice, completing 
prescriptions, making referrals, issuing any certificate 
to ACC and all relevant documentation that results 
from the consultation or visit.
A consultation does not include insubstantial medical 
services that a client wouldn’t typically pay for, for 
example phone consultations and informal encounters.
If you bill us using hourly rates or variable fees, you 
must bill us in a way that appropriately reflects the 
proportion of time in a consultation or visit that you 
spent directly applying your expertise to treat the 
client’s covered injury (see also direct treatment).
Some minor treatments or procedures are also 
included in a consultation or visit for billing purposes 
under the Regulations. See our information sheet (ACC 
1520) for more information on this.
	
→Telehealth guidelines
Consultation 
or visit
Direct treatment refers to the amount of time you 
directly apply your expertise to a client’s treatment. It 
includes:
•	
assessing or reviewing the client’s injury
•	
developing a treatment plan with the client 
(including taking the client’s history and writing 
clinical notes during the consultation or visit)
•	
physically applying treatment(s)
•	
observing the client while treatment(s) is in place.
Direct 
treatment
9

--- PAGE 11 ---
Generally, we only pay for one consultation or visit 
per day per client, for all provider types. However, 
we consider each case individually and, if clinically 
justified, we may pay for a second consultation/visit.
Criteria for more than one payment
Paying for two consultations or visits in one day may 
be clinically justified if:
•	
you need to reassess the client for a second time 
later in the day, for example if you need to change 
a dressing or check a client whose condition may 
deteriorate or be likely to deteriorate
•	
the client initiates the second consultation/visit 
because of concerns about their condition
•	
the client is treated for one injury then leaves the 
consultation or visit and has a second, separate 
accident that day.
We are unable to pay for more than one consultation 
or visit in a day when:
•	
a client is referred for X-ray and returns for a 
consultation or visit afterwards to discuss the 
outcome
•	
more than one covered injury is managed at the 
same presentation.
For any queries, please call the call us on 
0800 222 070 or email providerhelp@acc.co.nz.
To help us make quick decisions on invoices for 
additional same-day consultations or visits, you must 
explain why they were needed. If you use manual 
invoices or a bulk-billing schedule, note your reasons 
on the invoice. If you invoice electronically, call us on 
0800 222 070 or email providerhelp@acc.co.nz.
Dual registration
If you hold dual registration with ACC (for example as 
a physiotherapist and acupuncturist), you may only 
invoice us under one registration number, regardless 
of what treatment modalities you use during the 
treatment session.
 
More than one consultation 
or visit per day
10

--- PAGE 12 ---
A focus on quality helps our clients get the best 
outcomes possible from the treatment you provide.
To support this, we have structures in place that ensure 
your services meet professional standards, as well as 
our policies, procedures and expectations.
View the Accident Compensation (Liability to Pay or 
Contribute to Cost of Treatment) Regulations 2003 on 
the New Zealand Legislation website.
Provider monitoring
Our Performance Monitoring Advisors are a point 
of contact to support your understanding of our 
legislation, policies and procedures.
Performance Monitoring Advisors may contact you to 
address any concerns about service provision.
They can be contacted at 
ProviderPerformanceReporting@acc.co.nz
Clinical advice
We have many clinically qualified staff with a 
range of backgrounds (medical, allied health, nursing, 
and psychology).
Our clinical staff help support our Engagement 
and Performance and Integrity Services teams with 
clinical quality.
Type of support may include:
•	
visits to you
•	
reviewing your clinical records
•	
giving you feedback strengthening your clinical 
documentation.
Peer reviews
To ensure we have the best information, we may 
approach providers within your clinical peer group or 
profession for advice.
Fraud prevention and investigation 
ACC is committed to protecting the integrity and 
sustainability of the Scheme. Fraud, waste and abuse 
undermine fairness, impact those who genuinely need 
support, and compromise public trust.
We define:
•	
Fraud – deliberate, false representation
•	
Abuse – negligence or failure to exercise proper 
duties (including manipulation of policies and 
procedures)
•	
Waste – carelessness with regards to following 
policies and procedures.
Managing 
performance
11

--- PAGE 13 ---
Our Fraud Prevention and Investigation team takes a 
prevention-first approach, using real-time analytics 
to identify risk early and act with precision. This helps 
ensure the Scheme is used transparently, fairly and for 
its intended purpose.
We work closely with treatment and rehabilitation 
providers to support the best outcomes for 
clients. Early engagement, data insights and open 
conversations help us stay aligned and responsive.
Everyone has a role in protecting the Scheme. If 
something doesn’t seem right, or if you’re unsure 
about what’s expected, the Fraud Prevention and 
Investigation team is here to help.
Contacting Fraud Prevention and Investigation
If you have concerns that may require our attention, 
contact the team on 0508 222 372 or via our website.
Please contact us if you change your name, postal or 
email address, or your phone or fax number.
Let us know about any change in your practising status 
(including conditions on practice or suspension of your 
Annual Practising Certificate).
You can update your details by calling us on 
0800 222 070 or emailing registrations@acc.co.nz 
(make sure you include your provider number in the 
email).
Keeping your 
details up to date
Our website has up to date information on 
many different areas of ACC’s business. 
Familiarise yourself with the website and 
use it as your first point of reference if you 
have questions that need to be answered.
•	
Our website, www.acc.co.nz
•	
Contact Centre, call 0800 222 070
•	
For provider registrations, call 
0800 222 070 or email 
registrations@acc.co.nz
Further 
information
12

--- PAGE 14 ---
acc.co.nz 
0800 222 070
ACC8564 October 2025
