Accident Services — A Guide for DHB and ACC Staff
Source: https://www.acc.co.nz/assets/provider/accident-services-a-guide-for-dhb-and-acc-staff.pdf
Extract: Section 4.12 Transport and accommodation (emergency transport, inter-hospital transfers, non-emergency travel and accommodation assistance, escort and support person costs).
Fetched and verified 4 Aug 2026. Real ACC public document — nothing fabricated.

4.12 Transport and accommodation Transport and accommodation can be provided through different funding mechanisms, for example the Emergency Ambulance Services agreement (see the Nationwide Service Framework Library , the Ancillary Services Regulations 2002 and the National Travel Assistance (NTA) policy ). The responsibility for determining eligibility to access transport assistance is split between DHBs and ACC depending on the scenario, as detailed in the table below. As a general rule, DHBs are responsible for decisions on transport and accommodation associated with treatment provided as part of PHAS. This excludes emergency transport within 24 hours of a person being injured or the discovery of the injured person (where ACC determines eligibility). An exception to this exclusion is where transfer within 24 hours is required because the DHB’s normal services are not available (eg if the intensive care unit [ICU] is full or the specialist is on leave). ACC is responsible for decisions on the provision of transport and accommodation required by accident patients outside the PHAS period, as well as emergency transport required within 24 hours 42 . 41 Information on MoH subsidies for hearing aids can be accessed via Enable New Zealand website . 42 The 24-hour period starts when a client is injured or is found after being injured (whichever is later).

Accident Compensation Corporation Page 55 of 84 Table 24: How is transport purchased/funded? Table 24 shows which agencies are responsible for determining travel assistance eligibility in different scenarios. Eligibility is always on a case-by-case basis. The NTA policy and ACC may have different criteria to determine eligibility for assistance and different levels of assistance available. Type of hospital-related attendance Type of transport How transport is purchased/funded 43 DHB ED attendance Emergency transport of injured person within 24 hours 44 ACC Non-emergency transport (non- ambulance) 45 prior to admission ACC Non-emergency transport of a client travelling home after an ED attendance or discharge from an acute admission DHB 46 (must meet NTA policy criteria) 47 DHB acute admission Emergency transport of injured person within 24 hours 48 ACC Inter-hospital transfers within 24 hours because of specialist treatment requirements (i.e. specialist level of treatment required that is not normally available at DHB) ACC Inter-hospital transfers within 24 hours because normal services are not available (eg lack of ICU beds) 49 DHB Any inter-hospital transfers after 24 hours DHB Non-emergency transport prior to admission ACC Non-emergency transport of a client transferring to a non-acute inpatient rehabilitation facility after discharge from an acute admission DHB Non-emergency transport for family/support person to travel between their home and the DHB 50 DHB (must meet NTA policy criteria) 43 Where the DHB is responsible for purchasing transport assistance, it is the injured person’s DHB of domicile (the DHB of the area in which the patient usually resides). 44 The 24-hour period starts when a client is injured or is found after being injured (whichever is later). 45 ACC does not consider it necessary, or appropriate, to pay for non-emergency transportation in an ambulance to an ED. 46 DHBs do not normally pay for transport for patients to discharge home from an acute admission or ED attendance. 47 NTA funding is only available if the person meets the eligibility criteria of the NTA policy. 48 The 24-hour period starts when a client is injured or is found after being injured (whichever is later). 49 Funding comes from the DHB that is transferring the patient. 50 It is the situation of the patient that determines eligibility for the NTA, not the situation of the supporters. If an injured person is eligible for the NTA, their specialist must approve funding for a support person.

Accident Compensation Corporation Page 56 of 84 Type of hospital-related attendance Type of transport How transport is purchased/funded 43 DHB outpatient services - medical follow-up: • provided by a doctor within six weeks of ED attendance discharge or six weeks following an acute admission • provided within seven days of GP referral Non-emergency transport for the injured person (and family/support person) to travel to and from the DHB for treatment at medical outpatients DHB (must meet NTA policy criteria) DHB other outpatient services: • all non-medical outpatient services (eg physiotherapy, occupational therapy) • medical outpatient services outside the six-week PHAS period Non-emergency transport for the injured person (and escort) to travel to and from the DHB for treatment at outpatients ACC DHB elective admissions Non-emergency transport and other travel assistance for the injured person (and support person/escort) for hospital visits associated with elective admissions ACC Services provided by non- DHB hospital treatment providers 51 All non-emergency transport and travel assistance ACC 51 Treatment must be from a treatment provider specified in the AC Act 2001.

Accident Compensation Corporation Page 57 of 84 4.12.1 PHAS and National Travel Assistance (NTA) Policy 2009 The NTA provides some financial assistance towards meeting the expenses associated with travel that may be a barrier to a person accessing the specialist care they require. During the PHAS period, injured persons have the same access to the NTA’s travel and accommodation assistance as persons with a medical condition or a disability. Outside that period, ACC’s own policies with regard to travel and accommodation assistance apply. NTA Policy 2009 is targeted at those people who: a. have to travel long distances to access specialist health or disability services b. incur high travel costs as a result of frequent visits to specialist health or disability services c. have significant financial needs that might otherwise prevent them accessing necessary specialist health or disability services. Any person who is referred by a publicly funded health and disability specialist to another publicly funded health and disability service (as described in section 2.1 of the NTA Policy 2009) may be eligible for travel assistance under the NTA scheme, provided they meet one or more of the distance/frequency criteria. People can find out more about the eligibility criteria by: a. calling MoH’s Sector Operations (the NTA payment agency) on 0800 281 222 (option 2) or b. emailing travel@moh.govt.nz or c. visiting http://www.moh.govt.nz/travelassistance . People can confirm eligibility to register for travel assistance by contacting a DHB’s patient transport coordinator. 4.12.1.1 Overseas visitor Overseas visitors 52 are generally not eligible for travel assistance, as they do not meet the criteria of ‘home’ defined in the NTA policy 53 . 4.12.2 Emergency transport Regulation 3 of the Ancillary Services Regulations 2002 states Emergency transport means transport that: a. starts within 24 hours of a claimant suffering a personal injury or being found after suffering a personal injury, whichever is the later; and b. is necessary for the purpose of obtaining treatment urgently for the claimant’s personal injury. ACC is responsible for emergency transport (air, and road including water) within 24 hours of a patient/client being injured or being found after being injured. This includes emergency inter- hospital transfers (that is, within 24 hours) where the patient’s/client’s condition has deteriorated or the hospital is not able to provide the level of specialist care required 54 . All emergency transport, including emergency inter-hospital transfers, must be dispatched by an ambulance communications centre. 52 Some overseas visitors (eg some students and New Zealand citizens whose usual place of abode is in the Cook Islands, Niue or Tokelau) may qualify for t h e NTA because they are entitled to access public health services. See MoH website for details on the publicly funded health services eligibility criteria. 53 ‘Home’ is currently defined in the NTA policy as the person’s normal place of residence, where the person has been living continuously for more than three months. 54 Inter-hospital transfer because of space constraints within the acute period are funded via PHAS.

Accident Compensation Corporation Page 58 of 84 The contracted price for emergency transport includes the paramedic crew. Any additional crew or medical escort(s) provided by a DHB or required as part of an emergency transport service, including inter-hospital transfers within the first 24 hours, is the responsibility of the DHB and is included within PHAS funding. 4.12.3 Inter-hospital transfers within the first 24 hours and clinical crew a. Emergency ambulance providers (road and air) are funded to cover the cost of paramedic level clinical crew for inter-hospital transfers that are within the first 24 hours of a patient/client being injured or found injured. b. Inter-hospital transfers may require the patient/client to be escorted by an appropriate hospital clinical team from bed (originating hospital) to bed (receiving hospital). DHBs are funded for this through Regulation 4(1) of the IPRC (PHAS) Regulations 2002. c. There may be arrangements in place between emergency ambulance providers and DHBs for the operational management of clinical crew for these inter-hospital transfers. However, please note these are outside of obligations under the emergency ambulance service agreements and IPRC (PHAS) Regulations 2002. 4.12.4 Transfer of patients between hospitals a. Inter-hospital transfers funded by ACC are part of emergency transport. The transfers must be within the first 24 hours only of the patient/client being injured or found injured and they must be dispatched by an ambulance communications centre. b. A DHB only funds inter-hospital transport within 24 hours if a patient/client requires transferring because the hospital’s normal services are not available (eg if the ICU is full or the specialist is on leave). c. A public hospital to public hospital transfer relating to an acute event, and taking place more than 24 hours after a patient/client has been injured or has been found injured, is covered by PHAS. These are the funding responsibility of the DHB of domicile d. A private hospital to public hospital transfer is the responsibility of the referring hospital or ACC, depending on whether the transfer to acute treatment is due to a health need or a personal injury/treatment injury need. Additional information on the transfer of patients/clients is covered in Table 24 in section 4.12 of this guide. 4.12.5 Non-emergency travel and accommodation assistance The DHB is responsible for funding travel and accommodation assistance for injured patients/clients who are receiving public health acute services. The NTA policy applies to ACC clients on the same eligibility grounds as patients who are ill or have a disability. Assistance by the DHB is not automatic; it is dependent upon criteria such as distance to travel, income levels, age and frequency of treatment. ACC is not responsible for providing any assistance where the NTA policy does not provide for assistance to an injured person who is receiving public health acute services, until the DHB’s responsibility for travel and accommodation ceases. This is when the patient/client is no longer receiving public health acute services, eg after being transferred to a non-acute inpatient rehabilitation facility or after the patient/client has travelled home following the completion of six weeks of medical outpatient services. ACC is responsible for providing non-emergency transport for its clients to travel to treatment (excluding the majority of public health acute services - see Table 24 in section 4.12 of this guide) and to travel to the specified types of social and vocational rehabilitation listed in the Ancillary Services Regulations 2002.

Accident Compensation Corporation Page 59 of 84 The criteria for receiving payment from ACC for transport and accommodation costs related to treatment and rehabilitation are specified in the Ancillary Services Regulations 2002: a. Non-emergency scheduled surface public transport costs ( Regulation 7 ) b. Non-emergency transport by private motor vehicle ( Regulation 8 ) c. Non-emergency transport by air ( Regulation 9 ) d. Non-emergency transport ambulance transport ( Regulation 10 ) e. Non-emergency other transport ( Regulation 11 ). It must be noted that the transport to treatment criteria only relates to medical practitioner outpatient appointments as per PHAS rules, and not allied health and nurse consultations or community-referred radiology. ACC’s prior approval is required in some cases (eg for non-emergency transport by air and non- emergency ambulance transport). ACC can also pay the cost of non-emergency ambulance transport and non-emergency transport by air to rehabilitation (excluding the majority of public health acute services - see Table 24 in section 4.12 of this guide), which is available to clients where the client's injury is such that no other form of public or private transport is appropriate. To access one of these services, a client must have obtained a certificate from their doctor that validates the need for an ambulance. The service can be arranged by the requesting treatment provider by contacting the ambulance communications centre. Prior approval from ACC is required. ACC contracts for the provision of this service with their emergency ambulance providers. It should be noted that non-emergency transport by ambulance is not subject to the same access criteria as apply under the Ancillary Services Regulations 2002 to most other forms of non-emergency transport to rehabilitation. 4.12.6 Escort costs Under Regulation 12 of the Ancillary Services Regulations 2002, ACC is responsible for decisions on payment for travel and accommodation assistance for an escort, but only when an escort is accompanying the client in non-emergency transport to treatment or rehabilitation that is not part of PHAS (see Table 24 in section 4.12 of this guide for more detail). ACC is liable for escort costs for non-emergency transport under the following circumstances: a. the injured person is under 18 years of age; or b. the medical condition or pre-existing disability of the injured person is such that they need an escort; or c. the person or organisation providing the transport that is used requires the injured person to be escorted. ACC pays accommodation costs for escorts for as long as the availability of transport services prevents the escort returning home. ACC does not pay accommodation costs for an escort if they are sharing the accommodation with the client. Prior approval should be sought from ACC to check if escort costs can be paid in a particular case. An individual cannot receive ‘double’ payment for acting as both an escort and a support person. 4.12.7 Support person costs Under Regulation 13 of the Ancillary Services Regulations 2002, ACC is responsible for decisions on payment for travel and accommodation assistance for support persons, but only when a support person is visiting a client who is receiving ACC-approved inpatient or residential rehabilitation that is not a public

Accident Compensation Corporation Page 60 of 84 health acute service. When a client is receiving a public health acute service, any support person’s costs are managed under the DHB’s responsibility and determined by the NTA criteria. If the client is aged 18 years or older, ACC pays the regulated amounts for up to one return journey and two nights’ accommodation per week, if the support person would have to travel over 80 kilometres in a one-way journey to visit the client. If the client is under the age of 18 years, the client travel rules apply to support person travel. ACC pays accommodation costs for support persons for as long as the availability of transport services prevents them returning home (or up to a maximum of two nights’ accommodation per week if the client is aged 18 years or older). ACC does not pay accommodation costs for a support person if they are sharing the accommodation with the client or escort. An individual cannot receive ‘double’ payment for acting as both a support person and an escort. Prior approval should be sought from ACC to check if support person costs can be paid in a particular case.