Ambulance - road and air (Recovery services directory)
Source: https://www.acc.co.nz/for-providers/treatment-recovery/recovery-services-directory
Section: Ambulance - road and air. Fetched 4 Aug 2026 from the public ACC Recovery services directory.
Real ACC public guidance on emergency road and air ambulance services, including when air ambulance is used and whether there is a cost to the injured client.

Who is this service for?

This service is for anyone who needs emergency ambulance services because of an injury or medical emergency, or who need to be moved between medical facilities for specialised care.

This service is paid for jointly by ACC and Health New Zealand | Te Whatu Ora.

What is the purpose of the service?

The purpose of air (helicopters and aeroplanes) and road ambulance services is to provide acutely injured patients kiritaki (clients) with emergency medical treatment and, if required, safe transportation to an appropriate healthcare facility.

Who can refer kiritaki (clients) to the service?

Requests for air and road ambulance service can be made by:
- members of the public making a 111 call to emergency services
- emergency medical personnel at the scene of an incident
- hospital staff needing to transfer a patient
- general practitioners (GPs) or nurse practitioners in emergency situations.

On receiving these requests, the emergency ambulance communication centres will triage the incident, provide clinical advice, refer the patient/kiritaki (clients) to other services, and dispatch an air or road ambulance as appropriate.

Who can deliver this service?

Emergency ambulance services are delivered by trained ambulance staff, including paramedics and other health professionals who can provide advanced life support during transport. Air ambulances are operated by licensed pilots with specialised training in air ambulance transport.

Where does the service happen?

Emergency ambulance services are provided anywhere in New Zealand, covering both urban and rural areas. The emergency air ambulance helicopter service is available across New Zealand and is primarily used in rural and remote communities if the patient/kiritaki (clients) need meets the dispatch criteria.

How is the service delivered?

When an emergency ambulance service is required, the air or road ambulance service is dispatched to the location of the patient/kiritaki (clients).

The ambulance crew provides necessary clinical assessment and care at the scene and during transport to the appropriate medical facility, such as a hospital. Some kiritaki (clients) may be safe to remain at the scene (e.g. home, sports field) without needing transport following treatment.

When is the service complete?

The service is complete when clinical responsibility for a patient/kiritaki (clients) has been handed over to the staff at the receiving medical facility, such as a hospital. If transport to a hospital or other medical facility was not required, the service can be considered complete following assessment and treatment, including appropriate referrals to other healthcare services by the ambulance staff.

Is there a cost to the kiritaki (clients)?

There is no cost to an injured patient/kiritaki (clients) for emergency air and road ambulance services. However, Hato Hone St John may apply a fee, called a 'part charge', to non-ACC patients who use a road ambulance. Patients/kiritaki (clients) who are not eligible for publicly funded ambulance services may be charged by the ambulance service provider for the costs in delivering a response.
