Travel and transport (client guidance)
Source: https://www.acc.co.nz/im-injured/types-of-ongoing-support/travel-transport
Last published on page: 19 June 2024 (as shown when fetched 4 Aug 2026).
Public ACC client guidance on travel and accommodation assistance, distance thresholds, prior approval, air travel, and emergency travel (e.g. ambulance) related to a covered injury.

Travel and transport 
 

Travel and transport 

If we cover your injury we may be able to help with costs if you need to travel for treatment or rehabilitation. Learn more about the transport options available and how to apply for repayment of travel costs. Get prior approval by talking with your recovery team. 

On this page 

Travel for treatment and rehabilitation 

We’ll work together on the best way for you to travel for treatment and rehabilitation. We can contribute to transport costs when you travel to the nearest provider for the following: 

treatment, like a physio or doctor’s appointment, or counselling 

social rehabilitation, like rongoā 

vocational rehabilitation, like a work-related programme, or course we have asked you to attend 

rehabilitation assessment or reassessment 

inpatient, outpatient, or residential rehabilitation that we have approved 

picking up an aid or appliance, or having this fitted 

attending a training for independence programme. 

Types of travel we can help with 

We can help with costs when you need to travel to treatment and rehabilitation appointments. There are guidelines on costs and distances and in some cases you’ll need prior approval. We can help with the cost of: 

travel using a private motor vehicle, like a car 

public transport 

taxis or a driving companion service 

air travel 

accommodation 

Travel that needs prior approval 

open 

All travel related to rehabilitation needs prior approval. Talk with your recovery team to organise this. 

Travel for social rehabilitation, like rongoā Māori 

Travel for vocational rehabilitation, like a work-related programme, or course we have asked you to attend 

Public transport if you will spend over $46 a month travelling. A month starts from the date of one month and ends before the same date of the following month, for example 15 May to 14 June. 

Taxis or a driving companion service. This includes pre-arranged taxi services as well as reimbursing you for trips taken. 

Any travel related to friends and whānau. 

We do not pay costs toward accommodation if you’re staying at the treatment or rehabilitation centre. 

Travel that does not need prior approval 

open 

The following travel does not need prior approval. You will need to provide proof that the travel or appointment happened. 

Private motor vehicle, like a car, driven by you or someone else, when you travel more than 20km in a one-way trip within the first 14 days after your injury, or more than 80km within a month for treatment or rehabilitation. 

Public transport, when you travel more than 20km in a one-way trip within the first 14 days after your injury, travel more than 80km within a month, or if you spend more than $46 in a month. 

Accommodation support if you can’t stay at home when attending your appointment. This is a fixed rate of $140, including GST, per night for commercial accommodation, or $35, including GST, per night if you stay with friends or whānau. 

Travel cost guidelines 

If you are requesting support with travel costs there are some guidelines. 

Health provider location 

Travel needs to be to your nearest treatment or rehabilitation provider. 

Travel distance 

You can apply for travel costs if: 

You travel more than 20km from the starting point of your journey to the nearest place for treatment or rehabilitation within 14 days after the injury date, or the total distance accumulated from all your journeys to treatment or rehabilitation is more than 80km within any calendar month. 

Private motor vehicle 

We are legally required to pay 34 cents per kilometre, including GST, if you travel over the mentioned distances (20km in a single trip within 14 days of your injury or over 80km in a month). 

Public transport 

We’ll reimburse the actual cost of travelling by public transport to your nearest treatment or rehabilitation provider. Proof is needed and might be the travel ticket or e-receipt from your travel card app. 

Other transport services 

This includes taxis or a driving companion service if you’re unable to travel alone. 

We will reimburse the actual cost you spend travelling by other transport services if we agree in advance that: 

it is the best way of getting to your treatment or rehabilitation 

you do not have natural support available, for example a family member driving you 

you can’t use public transport because of your injury. 

How to apply for travel costs 

Get prior approval 

Before your appointment, talk to your recovery team to get prior approval. It will be faster for us to process travel costs and make a payment to you if you have this already. 

If you have prior approval, there are two ways to apply for a travel cost repayment. 

Use MyACC 

If you travelled by private motor vehicle, such as a car (not including taxis or a driver companion service), you can use MyACC and add your travel details online. Log in to MyACC and head to the Support section, then scroll down to ‘Transport and getting around’. 

If your travel was more than 12 months ago, you will need to complete an ACC250 reimbursement form, rather than use MyACC. 

You can also apply to organise taxis in advance if you have prior approval for this. 

Learn about MyACC 

Complete a travel reimbursement form 

If you’re not able to use MyACC, or travel was not by a private motor vehicle, complete the ACC250 travel reimbursement form. Send this to us with the information requested on the form. 

If you did not get prior approval, you can still submit a travel reimbursement. It may take longer to process as we will need to check proof of attendance with your health provider. We may need to contact you for more information before approving the reimbursement. 

Download the Word version of the ACC250 travel reimbursement form. Complete the form and return to us with proof of attendance. You can send this by email or post, the details are on the form. 

We’ll contact you 

We try to process applications within 10 business days. We’ll contact you to let you know when the travel reimbursement has been approved and payment is being made. 

ACC250 Travel reimbursement – Word version 

Download the Word version of the ACC250 travel reimbursement form. Complete the form and return to us with proof of attendance. You can send this by email or post, the details are on the form. 

Download docx 67 KB 

ACC250 Travel reimbursement – PDF 

If you use a Mac, you can use the PDF version. Complete the form and return to us with proof of attendance. You can send this by email or post, the details are on the form. 

Download pdf 144 KB 

Ten tips for reimbursing travel 

Talk with your recovery team about transport options and work out the best option for you. 

Travel should be to the nearest health provider from your location. 

Getting prior approval can speed up processing and payment of travel costs into your bank account. 

You can apply for reimbursement of costs for travel has happened in the last 12 months – but not future travel. 

If you have made multiple trips to treatment or rehabilitation by car or other private motor vehicle, you can easily use MyACC to apply for reimbursement of these costs. You don’t need to submit individual applications. 

Use MyACC to request payments for yourself, not on behalf of someone else. 

If you have authority to act on behalf of someone else, you will need to request reimbursement using the ACC250 client travel reimbursement form. 

It may be faster to use MyACC than the ACC250 form. Talk with your recovery team if you urgently need the travel costs to be repaid. 

Take the ACC250 form to your treatment or rehabilitation appointment so your health provider can sign to confirm your attendance. 

When we talk about travel within a month, the month starts from the date of one month and ends before the same date of the following month, for example 15 May to 14 June. 

Other travel-related support 

Less common travel types 

These transport types are less common, and all require prior approval, so talk with your recovery team about this. 

Air travel, if we’ve agreed this is the best way to get to treatment or rehabilitation 

Travel to work if we are helping you with training or a new type of job 

Getting your children to school if they rely on you for care 

Driver licence retraining, if your doctor says you need to re-sit or change this because of your injury 

Changes to your vehicle if you can’t use it because or your injury 

Emergency travel, like an ambulance, if you receive an invoice for this and it relates to an injury we cover 

Travel by your friends and whānau 

Prior approval is needed before we can pay towards travel expenses for your friends and whānau. 

We can pay towards travel expenses for friends and whānau if they attend treatment or rehabilitation with you for any of these reasons: 

you, as the injured person are 18 years or younger 

your medical condition requires someone to travel with you 

the travel services provider requires someone to travel with you to your treatment or rehabilitation 

If you travel in a car together, we pay costs for one person - either yourself or your friends and whānau. 

We can pay towards travel expenses for friends and whānau if they visit you while you're receiving rehabilitation to help you achieve your rehabilitation outcome when: 

you, as the injured person are 18 years or younger 

your friends and whānau have to make a single journey that is more than 80km in one direction, for example, they drive from Hamilton to Auckland, which is 121km 

you, as the injured person, are receiving in-patient rehabilitation or residential rehabilitation 

Depending on what transport or accommodation your friends and whānau use, they will need to meet the travel criteria. Talk with your recovery team about the criteria and prior approval. 

Contact us 

MyACC allows you to view your injury claim and request support for your recovery online. Use it on mobile, tablet or desktop. You can: 

apply for weekly compensation 

request other support, like equipment, to help you with everyday tasks 

enter any hours you work 

upload a new medical certificate 

request a pre-employment check for an employer. 

Log in to MyACC 

If you want to know more about how we can help, talk to your recovery team or contact our claims team: 

Phone 0800 101 996 (Monday to Friday, 8 am to 6pm ) 
Email claims@acc.co.nz 

Last published: 19 June 2024 

Types of ongoing support 

Getting aids and equipment to help with an injury 

Help at home after an injury 

Travel and transport 

Support with childcare and education after an injury 

Counselling and therapy after a physical injury 

Culturally responsive support with Hāpai 

Treatment under our Integrated Care Pathway
