Health and Disability Commissioner (Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers' Rights) Regulations 1996

The Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers' Rights (the Code) establishes the rights of consumers, and the obligations and duties of providers to comply with the Code. It is a regulation under the Health and Disability Commissioner Act 1994.

1. Consumers have rights and providers have duties:
(1) Every consumer has the rights in this Code.
(2) Every provider is subject to the duties in this Code.
(3) Every provider must take action to:
(a) Inform consumers of their rights; and
(b) Enable consumers to exercise their rights.

2. Rights of consumers and duties of providers:
The rights of consumers and the duties of providers under this Code are as follows:

Right 1 Right to be treated with respect
(1) Every consumer has the right to be treated with respect.
(2) Every consumer has the right to have his or her privacy respected.
(3) Every consumer has the right to be provided with services that take into account the needs, values, and beliefs of different cultural, religious, social, and ethnic groups, including the needs, values, and beliefs of Māori.

Right 2 Right to freedom from discrimination, coercion, harassment, and exploitation
Every consumer has the right to be free from discrimination, coercion, harassment, and sexual, financial or other exploitation.

Right 3 Right to dignity and independence
Every consumer has the right to have services provided in a manner that respects the dignity and independence of the individual.

Right 4 Right to services of an appropriate standard
(1) Every consumer has the right to have services provided with reasonable care and skill.
(2) Every consumer has the right to have services provided that comply with legal, professional, ethical, and other relevant standards.
(3) Every consumer has the right to have services provided in a manner consistent with his or her needs.
(4) Every consumer has the right to have services provided in a manner that minimises the potential harm to, and optimises the quality of life of, that consumer.
(5) Every consumer has the right to co-operation among providers to ensure quality and continuity of services.

Right 5 Right to effective communication
(1) Every consumer has the right to effective communication in a form, language, and manner that enables the consumer to understand the information provided. Where necessary and reasonably practicable, this includes the right to a competent interpreter.
(2) Every consumer has the right to an environment that enables both consumer and provider to communicate openly, honestly, and effectively.

Right 6 Right to be fully informed
(1) Every consumer has the right to the information that a reasonable consumer, in that consumer's circumstances, would expect to receive, including:
(a) an explanation of his or her condition; and
(b) an explanation of the options available, including an assessment of the expected risks, side effects, benefits, and costs of each option; and
(c) advice of the estimated time within which the services will be provided; and
(d) notification of any proposed participation in teaching or research, including whether the research requires and has received ethical approval; and
(e) any other information required by legal, professional, ethical, and other relevant standards; and
(f) the results of tests; and
(g) the results of procedures.
(2) Before making a choice or giving consent, every consumer has the right to the information that a reasonable consumer, in that consumer's circumstances, needs to make an informed choice or give informed consent.
(3) Every consumer has the right to honest and accurate answers to questions relating to services, including questions about:
(a) the identity and qualifications of the provider; and
(b) the recommendation of the provider; and
(c) how to obtain an opinion from another provider; and
(d) the results of research.
(4) Every consumer has the right to receive, on request, a written summary of information provided.

Right 7 Right to make an informed choice and give informed consent
(1) Services may be provided to a consumer only if that consumer makes an informed choice and gives informed consent, except where any enactment, or the common law, or any other provision of this Code provides otherwise.
(2) Every consumer must be presumed competent to make an informed choice and give informed consent, unless there are reasonable grounds for believing that the consumer is not competent.
(3) Where a consumer has diminished competence, that consumer retains the right to make informed choices and give informed consent, to the extent appropriate to his or her level of competence.
(7) Every consumer has the right to refuse services and to withdraw consent to services.
(8) Every consumer has the right to express a preference as to who will provide services and have that preference met where practicable.

Right 8 Right to support
Every consumer has the right to have one or more support persons of his or her choice present, except where safety may be compromised or another consumer's rights may be unreasonably infringed.

Right 9 Rights in respect of teaching or research
The rights in this Code extend to those occasions when a consumer is participating in, or it is proposed that a consumer participate in, teaching or research.

Right 10 Right to complain
(1) Every consumer has the right to complain about a provider in any form appropriate to the consumer.
(2) Every consumer may make a complaint to:
(a) the individual or individuals who provided the services complained of; and
(b) any person authorised to receive complaints about that provider; and
(c) any other appropriate person, including:
(i) an independent advocate provided under the Health and Disability Commissioner Act 1994; and
(ii) the Health and Disability Commissioner.
(3) Every provider must facilitate the fair, simple, speedy, and efficient resolution of complaints.
(4) Every provider must inform a consumer about progress on the consumer's complaint at intervals of not more than 1 month.
(5) Every provider must comply with all the other relevant rights in this Code when dealing with complaints.
(6) Every provider, unless an employee of a provider, must have a complaints procedure that ensures that:
(a) the complaint is acknowledged in writing within 5 working days of receipt, unless it has been resolved to the satisfaction of the consumer within that period; and
(b) the consumer is informed of any relevant internal and external complaints procedures, including the availability of:
(i) independent advocates provided under the Health and Disability Commissioner Act 1994; and
(ii) the Health and Disability Commissioner; and
(c) the consumer's complaint and the actions of the provider regarding that complaint are documented; and
(d) the consumer receives all information held by the provider that is or may be relevant to the complaint.
(7) Within 10 working days of giving written acknowledgement of a complaint, the provider must:
(a) decide whether the provider:
(i) accepts that the complaint is justified; or
(ii) does not accept that the complaint is justified; or
(b) if it decides that more time is needed to investigate the complaint:
(i) determine how much additional time is needed; and
(ii) if that additional time is more than 20 working days, inform the consumer of that determination and of the reasons for it.
(8) As soon as practicable after a provider decides whether or not it accepts that a complaint is justified, the provider must inform the consumer of:
(a) the reasons for the decision; and
(b) any actions the provider proposes to take; and
(c) any appeal procedure the provider has in place.

3. Provider compliance
(1) A provider is not in breach of this Code if the provider has taken reasonable actions in the circumstances to give effect to the rights, and comply with the duties, in this Code.
(2) The onus is on the provider to prove that it took reasonable actions.
(3) For the purposes of this clause, the circumstances means all the relevant circumstances, including the consumer's clinical circumstances and the provider's resource constraints.

4. Definitions
In this Code, unless the context otherwise requires:
Consumer means a health consumer or a disability services consumer; and, for the purposes of rights 5, 6, 7(1), 7(7) to 7(10), and 10, includes a person entitled to give consent on behalf of that consumer.
Provider means a health care provider or disability services provider.
Services means health services, or disability services, or both; and includes health care procedures.

5. Other enactments
Nothing in this Code shall require a provider to act in breach of any duty or obligation imposed by any enactment or prevents a provider doing an act authorised by any enactment.

6. Other rights
An existing right is not overridden or restricted simply because the right is not included in this Code or is included only in part.

Relationship to ACC: this Code applies to the quality of health and disability services delivered to ACC clients by contracted and non-contracted health providers. It is a separate document family from the Code of ACC Claimants' Rights (which governs ACC's own conduct in dealing with claimants on cover and entitlement matters) - the Injury Prevention, Rehabilitation, and Compensation (Code of ACC Claimants' Rights) Notice 2002 explicitly states that treatment services and complaints about the quality of health and disability services continue to be covered by the Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers' Rights, not by the Code of ACC Claimants' Rights.

Source: Health and Disability Commissioner (Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers' Rights) Regulations 1996, published in full by the Health and Disability Commissioner at hdc.org.nz/your-rights/about-the-code/code-of-health-and-disability-services-consumers-rights/.
