
--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contract HW#### 
 
Contract for services between Accident Compensation 
Corporation and Supplier Name 

--- PAGE 2 ---
Table of Contents 
 
The Parties ................................................................................................................................. 1 
The Contract ............................................................................................................................... 1 
Standard Terms and Conditions ................................................................................................. 2 
1. 
Definitions of terms used in this Contract ...................................................................... 2 
2. 
How to interpret this Contract ....................................................................................... 7 
3. 
Start and end date for the Contract ............................................................................... 8 
4. 
Changes to this Contract ................................................................................................ 8 
5. 
Scope of these standard terms and conditions .............................................................. 8 
6. 
How each party will behave ........................................................................................... 9 
7. 
ACC’s obligations .......................................................................................................... 10 
8. 
Supplier’s obligations.................................................................................................... 10 
9. 
Personal and confidential information will be kept private and secure ...................... 13 
10. 
Charges and payment ................................................................................................... 17 
11. 
Responsibilities of Relationship managers ................................................................... 19 
12. 
How information will be managed and monitored ...................................................... 19 
13. 
Evaluation of services ................................................................................................... 20 
14. 
Improving services ........................................................................................................ 21 
15. 
Limits on the contractual relationship.......................................................................... 22 
16. 
How you deal with subcontractors ............................................................................... 22 
17. 
How to cover risks ........................................................................................................ 23 
18. 
Conflicts of interest ...................................................................................................... 23 
19 
Process for resolving disputes ...................................................................................... 24 
20. 
Ending this Contract ..................................................................................................... 25 
21. 
Rights after cancellation or expiry ................................................................................ 27 
22. 
Suspension of Services.................................................................................................. 27 
23. 
Notices and communication ......................................................................................... 28 
24. 
Business continuity ....................................................................................................... 29 
25. 
Extraordinary events .................................................................................................... 29 
26. 
ACC property ................................................................................................................ 30 
27. 
Organisational quality standards .................................................................................. 30 
28. 
General ......................................................................................................................... 32 
29. 
Multiple suppliers ......................................................................................................... 33 
30. 
Services for injured employees of accredited employers ............................................ 33 

--- PAGE 3 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 1 
 
The Parties 
 
 
ACCIDENT COMPENSATION CORPORATION, a statutory corporation continued by the 
Accident Compensation Act 2001 (called ACC and we) 
SUPPLIER NAME CAPS (called Supplier and you) 
Address 
The Contract 
 
 
We appoint you to deliver the Services described in each Service Schedule that forms part 
of this Contract, and you accept that appointment. You will provide each Service described 
in a Service Schedule for the Term described in that Service Schedule. This Contract sets 
out the Parties' rights and obligations. 
The documents forming this Contract are: 
1. 
This Cover Page 
2. 
Standard Terms and Conditions 
3. 
Service Schedules entered into under this Contract 
4. 
Any variations made according to this Contract. 
 
How to read this Contract 
1. 
Together the above documents form the whole Contract. 
2. 
Clause numbers refer to clauses in the Standard Terms and Conditions. 
3. 
Words defined in the Definitions section at clause 1 have the stated meaning 
throughout the Contract. 
Acceptance 
In signing this Contract, each Party acknowledges that it has read and agrees to be bound 
by this Contract. 
 
For and on behalf of 
Accident Compensation Corporation: 
 
For and on behalf of 
Supplier name: 
(signature)  
 
(signature) 
Name 
 
 
Name 
Position 
Manager, Health Sector 
Commissioning 
 
 
Position 
Date 
 
 
 
Date 

--- PAGE 4 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 2 
 
Standard Terms and Conditions 
 
 
 
1. 
Definitions of terms used in this Contract 
 
In this Contract, when we use the terms listed in this section, they have the meaning given 
immediately below: 
AC Act 
The Accident Compensation Act 2001. 
 
ACC 
The purchaser of the Services. ACC is named as purchaser of the Services under the 
Contract on the cover page of this Contract. Where the context requires, the term ‘ACC’ 
includes ACC’s employees, agents, consultants and contractors, and its successors and 
assigns. ‘Accident Compensation Corporation’ has the same meaning. 
Accredited Employer 
An employer accredited by ACC under the Accredited Employer Programme. ‘Accredited’ 
means the employer and ACC have an agreement under which the employer provides 
entitlements for work-related personal injuries suffered by the employer’s employees. 
‘Employees’ includes any subcontractor who meets the terms of the accreditation 
agreement. The Accredited Employer Programme is subject to a framework established 
under section 183 of the AC Act 2001. 
Business day 
A day when most businesses in New Zealand are open for business. Saturday, Sunday and 
public holidays are not business days. A business day starts at 8.30am and ends at 5pm. 
‘Working Day’ in any Service Schedule means the same as ‘Business day’. 
Business continuity 
The Supplier’s capability to continue delivery of Services at acceptable levels following a 
disruptive event. 
Charges 
The total amount payable by ACC to you, as stated in each Service Schedule. Charges are 
payable when the Services under this Contract have been delivered, provided you have 
submitted a valid tax invoice. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 3 
 
Client 
Any person who ACC has accepted as eligible for cover for personal injury under the AC Act 
and any other person or class of persons ACC regards as a client for the purposes of this 
Contract. ‘Claimant’ in any Service Schedule means the same as ‘Client’. 
Commencement date 
See Start date. 
 
Confidential information 
Information that has one or more of the following characteristics: 
 
(a) 
It is, by its nature, confidential 
 
(b) 
It is marked by either Party as 'confidential', 'in confidence', 'restricted' or 'commercial 
in confidence’. 
 
(c) 
It is provided by either Party or a third party 'in confidence'. 
 
(d) 
Either Party knows, or ought to know, it is confidential. 
 
(e) 
It is of a sensitive nature or commercially sensitive to either Party 
and includes Personal Information. 
 
Conflict of interest 
When personal or business interests or obligations conflict with obligations under this 
Contract. A conflict of interest may apply to either of the Parties or to its service providers. It 
may be: 
(a) 
actual: where the conflict currently exists 
 
(b) 
potential: where the conflict is about to happen or could happen 
 
(c) 
perceived: where other people may reasonably think that a person is compromised. 
A conflict of interest means the independence, objectivity or impartiality of a Party or 
service provider can be questioned. 
Contract 
The legal Contract between ACC and you comprising the Cover Page, these Standard 
Terms and Conditions, any Service Schedule, and any Variations made according to this 
Contract. 
Date of expiry 
See End date. 
 

--- PAGE 6 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 4 
 
End date 
For any Service Schedule, the earlier of: 
 
(a) 
the date the Service Schedule is due to end, as stated in that Service Schedule, or 
 
(b) 
any other date agreed between the Parties as the date for Services to end. 
‘Date of expiry’ in any Service Schedule means the same as ‘End date’. 
Evaluation 
Evaluations can be at a service provider, supplier, and/or Service-wide level, and methods of 
evaluation may include but are not limited to: 
(a) 
issues based review or audit, where risks and or concerns have been identified 
 
(b) 
post-implementation review, to evaluate the effectiveness of a new Service 
 
(c) 
service development review, to inform potential service redesign 
 
(d) 
routine programmes of service-wide audits by ACC, and 
 
(e) 
post-audit follow up to support ACC’s audit function and monitor progress towards 
recommended actions. 
 
Extraordinary event 
An event beyond the reasonable control of the Party immediately affected by the event. If the 
Party claiming could have prevented or overcome any risk or event by taking reasonable 
care, it is not an extraordinary event. Examples of extraordinary events include: 
(a) 
‘acts of God’ such as lightning strikes, earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, 
floods, storms, explosions, fires, pandemics and any natural disaster 
 
(b) 
acts of war (whether declared or not) such as invasion, actions of foreign enemies, 
military mobilisation, requisition or embargo 
 
(c) 
acts of public enemies such as terrorism, riots, civil commotion, malicious damage, 
sabotage, rebellion, insurrection, revolution or military usurped power or civil war 
 
(d) 
contamination by radioactivity from nuclear substances or germ warfare or any other 
such hazardous properties. 
 
GST 
The goods and services tax payable under the New Zealand Goods and Services Tax Act 
1985. 
Health Information 
As defined in the Health Information Privacy Code 2020. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 5 
 
Injured employee 
A person who has suffered a work related personal injury while employed by an accredited 
employer. 
Insolvency event 
The point at which an individual or entity becomes insolvent or unable to pay debts as they 
fall due. An insolvency event may be any of the following: 
(a) 
the appointment of a receiver, or receiver and manager, or statutory manager for the 
whole or part of the activity or your property 
 
(b) 
you entering into, or resolving to enter into, a voluntary agreement with creditors or 
any class of creditors for partial payment to fully satisfy their claims 
 
(c) 
you suspending or stopping payment to your creditors generally, or ceasing to carry 
on business as normal, or threatening or stating that you will do any of those things. 
 
Notice 
A formal or legal communication from one Party to the other that meets the requirements of 
clause 23. 
Notifiable Privacy Breach 
As defined in the Privacy Act 2020. 
Party 
ACC and you are each a Party to this Contract, and together are the Parties. 
Personal Information 
Information about an identifiable individual, in the form of either: 
(a) 
information that by itself identifies an individual (such as a person’s name); or  
(b) 
information that can identify an individual when combined with other reasonably 
available information,  
and, where relevant, includes Health Information. 
Privacy Breach 
As defined in the Privacy Act 2020. 
Records 
All information and data necessary to manage this Contract and deliver the Services. 
Records include, but are not limited to, reports, invoices, letters, emails, notes of meetings, 
photographs and other media recordings. Records can be hard copies or soft copies stored 
electronically. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 6 
 
Registered health professional 
As defined in the AC Act. 
 
Relationship manager 
The person named in each Service Schedule as the Relationship manager for that Service. 
Relationship managers’ responsibilities are listed in clause 11. The relationship manager 
position may be known by a number of different titles, including supplier manager and 
contract manager. 
Services 
All work, tasks and deliverables that you must perform and deliver under this Contract. 
Services are stated in a Service Schedule.  
Service provider 
A person engaged by you to provide any of the Services. You may also be a service provider 
if you are an individual. Examples include: the owner of the Supplier, its directors, 
employees, subcontractors, agents, external consultants, specialists, technical support and 
co-opted or seconded staff. 
Service Schedule 
An attachment to this Contract with the title ‘Service Schedule’. Service Schedules are 
added to this Contract by agreement in writing by the Parties. 
Start date 
The date when the term of any Service Schedule starts, as set out in that Service Schedule. 
‘Commencement date’ in any Service Schedule means the same as ‘Start date’. 
Subcontractor 
A person, business, company or organisation contracted by you to deliver or perform part of 
your obligations under this Contract. A person engaged on a contract for Services who 
performs the tasks of an employee is not considered a Subcontractor. 
Supplier 
The person, business, company or organisation named as the Supplier on the cover page, 
also referred to as ‘you’. ‘Supplier’ includes your service providers, successors, and 
permitted assignees. 
Term 
The period described in a Service Schedule during which you will provide the Services 
described in that Service Schedule. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 7 
 
Termination date 
The date you will stop providing any or all Services. 
Treatment provider 
As defined in the AC Act. 
 
Variation 
A change to any aspect of this Contract that complies with clause 4. 
 
We, us, our, and ours 
Accident Compensation Corporation, also known as ACC, as named on the Cover Page. 
 
You, your and yours 
The Supplier named on the Cover Page. 
 
2. 
How to interpret this Contract 
 
2.1. 
The rules in this clause apply when interpreting this Contract, unless the context 
otherwise requires. 
2.2. 
Terms defined in this document bear that defined meaning in the whole of this 
Contract. 
2.3. 
A reference to one gender includes the other. 
 
2.4. 
References to schedules, sections, clauses and subclauses are references to 
schedules, sections, clauses and subclauses of this Contract. 
2.5. 
The singular includes the plural and vice versa. 
 
2.6. 
Clause and other headings are ignored in interpreting this Contract. 
 
2.7. 
Any obligation to not do anything includes an obligation not to let, allow or cause that 
thing to be done. 
2.8. 
References to statutes, regulations, ordinances, bylaws or other instruments include 
any amendment, substitution or re-enactment. 
2.9. 
A person includes a company or other entity. Any reference to a person applies to its 
personal representatives or to its legal successor. 
 

--- PAGE 10 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 8 
 
3. 
Start and end date for the Contract 
 
3.1. 
This Contract starts on the date the second Party to sign has signed the cover page. 
 
3.2. 
Each Service Schedule has a start date and end date for the relevant Service. 
 
3.3. 
This Contract continues while there is a Service Schedule that has not been 
terminated or has not reached its end date. 
 
4. 
Changes to this Contract 
 
4.1. 
Any change to this Contract is called a Variation. Unless clause 4.2 or 4.3 or 4.4 
apply, a Variation must be agreed by both Parties and recorded: 
(a) 
in writing and signed by both Parties, or 
 
(b) 
through an exchange of emails where the authors have delegated authority to 
approve the Variation. 
 
ACC may amend the Contract 
4.2. 
At any time, after consulting with you, we may give you notice that this Contract 
(excluding prices) is varied with effect from a date stated in the notice. The notice will 
take effect from that date, and the Contract will be varied. We may not, under this 
clause, give a notice that reduces the prices payable under this Contract. 
4.3. 
If you can show that you will suffer additional costs as a result of the variation made 
under clause 4.2, you can claim these additional costs from us. If we agree that the 
variation has caused additional costs, we will be liable to pay such costs to you. If we 
do not agree, either Party may require the matter to be resolved under clause 19 
(Process for resolving disputes). 
Variations to give effect to government policy changes 
4.4. 
Despite clause 4.2, we may give you a notice varying this Contract if a change in 
legislation or regulations or a ministerial directive under the AC Act requires this 
Contract to be varied in any respect. This Contract will be varied from the date stated 
in the notice. We will not be liable for any loss or additional costs incurred by you as a 
result, unless we agree otherwise. 
 
5. 
Scope of these standard terms and conditions 
 
5.1. 
These Standard Terms and Conditions apply to each Service described in a Service 
Schedule. Any changes to these Standard Terms and Conditions will be set out in the 
relevant Service Schedule. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 9 
 
5.2. 
To avoid doubt, ACC and you agree that these Standard Terms and Conditions do 
not apply to any services you provide which are not described in a Service Schedule 
(e.g. treatment for a non-ACC covered condition funded by another agency or by the 
person). 
 
6. 
How each party will behave 
 
6.1. 
Both Parties agree: 
 
(a) 
to act in good faith and demonstrate honesty, integrity, openness and 
accountability in their dealings with each other 
 
(b) 
to discuss matters affecting this Contract or the delivery of the Services 
 
(c) 
to notify each other immediately of any actual or anticipated issues that could 
significantly impact on the Services or the charges 
 
(d) 
Subject to sub clause 6.2(a) and clause 9, not to make or issue to the media 
or any member of the public any oral or written statement or comment 
concerning a client, the client’s treatment, ACC or the operation of this 
Contract, without consulting the other Party beforehand 
 
(e) 
to promptly advise the other if: 
(i) 
required to provide information to a client, professional disciplinary 
body or other person under the Official Information Act 1982, the 
current Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers’ Rights or 
other legislation about a Client or Services provided under this 
Contract, or 
(ii) 
it is the subject of a complaint concerning a Client, the Client’s 
treatment in relation to the Services or the operation of this Contract. 
No adverse comments 
 
6.2. 
Each Party undertakes: 
 
(a) 
not to make any oral or written statement or comment to the media, a Client, 
or member of the public about the operation of the Contract that criticises the 
other Party or public opinion of the other Party, or that brings the other Party 
into disrepute (an adverse comment) 
 
(b) 
if responsible for such a statement or comment, at the request and with the 
prior agreement of the other Party, to promptly make an appropriate retraction 
or take such other remedial steps as are appropriate and reasonable in the 
circumstances, which will be without prejudice to any other rights, remedies or 
actions available to the other Party 
 

--- PAGE 12 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 10 
 
(c) 
not to publicly display (for example, on websites or social networking sites) 
objectionable or derogatory comments about the Services, this Contract, each 
other or any of its service providers, and to ensure that its service providers 
do not do so. 
 
7. 
ACC’s obligations 
 
7.1. 
ACC is a Crown entity and is therefore required to act consistently with the Treaty of 
Waitangi. We will take Treaty principles into account when designing, delivering, and 
monitoring Services that impact on economic opportunities and social outcomes for 
Māori. 
7.2. 
We must make decisions and give approvals that you reasonably require to deliver 
the Services. 
7.3. 
We must give all decisions and approvals within the timeframes in a Service 
Schedule or within reasonable timeframes if a timeframe is not specified. 
7.4. 
We must provide you with copies of any policies or procedures we expect you to 
comply with. 
7.5. 
We must pay you the Charges for the Services, as long as you have delivered 
the Services and invoiced ACC according to this Contract. 
7.6. 
We must comply with all applicable laws and regulations. 
 
Security 
7.7. 
Subject to all applicable law including the Privacy Act 2020, we will tell you if we are 
aware of significant security and safety issues with a Client. 
 
8. 
Supplier’s obligations 
Meet all regulatory and professional standards 
8.1. 
Your service delivery must 
 
(a) 
comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including the: 
(i) 
Health and Disability Services (Safety) Act 2001 
(ii) 
Privacy Act 2020 and Health Information Privacy Code 2020 
(iii) 
Health Practitioners Competence Assurance Act 2003 
(iv) 
Accident Compensation Act 2001 
(v) 
Health and Safety at Work Act 2015 
(vi) 
Children’s Act 2014 
 

--- PAGE 13 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 11 
 
(b) 
use the degree of professional skill, care and diligence expected of an 
appropriately qualified person experienced in providing the same or similar 
services 
 
(c) 
meet all current clinical, ethical and professional standards and guidelines 
 
(d) 
follow good practice at the level expected from a leading supplier in the 
relevant profession or industry. 
 
Meet the terms of the contract 
8.2. 
You must deliver the Services: 
 
(a) 
on time and to the required performance standards and quality, as: 
(i) 
set out in these Standard Terms and Conditions and the relevant 
Service Schedule 
(ii) 
reasonably notified by ACC to you from time to time, provided such 
notified standards are accepted by you 
(b) 
for the amounts agreed as Charges. 
 
Comply with ACC’s policies 
8.3. 
Services must comply with the Code of ACC Claimants’ Rights and any reasonable 
ACC policy on that Code that we provide to you (if that Code applies to the Services). 
If we contact you about a complaint under that Code, you will co-operate fully with us. 
8.4. 
Services must comply with all ACC’s policies on Service delivery. We must provide 
you with a copy of these policies. 
8.5. 
If you are at ACC's premises, you must comply with our policies and procedures, 
including those relating to health and safety, and security requirements. We will tell 
you what the relevant policies and procedures are, and give you a copy of them. 
Make sure your personnel and equipment meet the required standard 
8.6. 
You must make sure that your service providers have the necessary skills, 
experience, training and resources to successfully deliver the Services. This includes 
any specific qualifications, skills, experience, training and resources specified in a 
Service Schedule and the standards in clause 8.1. You will make sure that your 
service providers are aware of your obligations under this Contract, and meet all your 
obligations in this Contract. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 12 
 
8.7. 
You must make sure that all service providers who are registered health 
professionals or treatment providers meet the requirements of their registration body 
under the Health Practitioners Competence Assurance Act 2003, including meeting 
all clinical competence, cultural competence, and ethical conduct standards set by 
the registration body. You must advise us promptly if a service provider is subject to 
any practising restrictions imposed by their registration professional body, and keep 
us informed of any changes to those restrictions. 
8.8. 
You must provide all equipment and resources necessary to deliver the Services. 
 
Services must comply with the Treaty and meet cultural needs 
8.9. 
You must recognise the Treaty of Waitangi in the way you provide Services, including 
taking account of the social, economic and political values of Māori. 
8.10. If the nature of the Services requires it, you will deliver Services in a manner that is 
culturally appropriate including meeting the unique needs of the Māori client and that 
these Services comply with any reasonable ACC policy provided to you. You will 
contact the Relationship manager to discuss any issues about this clause. 
8.11. If the nature of the Services requires it, you will deliver Services in a manner that is 
culturally appropriate including meeting the unique needs of Pacific, Asian and other 
ethnic or indigenous groups and that these Services comply with any reasonable 
ACC policy provided to you. You will contact the Relationship manager to discuss 
any issues about this clause.   
Contract excludes regulations 
8.12. If a Service to a Client is included in a Service Schedule to this Contract, you must 
charge under this Contract. You cannot charge for that Service under any 
regulations. 
Insolvency events 
8.13. You agree to advise ACC of an insolvency event as soon as it happens. 
 
High profile issues 
8.14. Subject to all applicable law including the Privacy Act 2020, you will notify ACC 
immediately by telling the Relationship Manager for the relevant Service Schedule if 
you become aware of any issue about a Client or this Contract which may attract 
interest from the media or the public. 
Security issues 
8.15. Subject to all applicable law including the Privacy Act 2020, you will tell us if you are 
aware of significant security and safety issues with a Client. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 13 
 
Health and Safety 
8.16. Ensuring health and safety: In performing its obligations under this Contract, the 
Supplier must: 
(a) 
comply with all relevant health and safety legislation including the Health and 
Safety at Work Act 2015 ("HSAWA"); 
 
(b) 
so far as reasonably practicable, ensure the health and safety of: 
 
(i) 
ACC's and the Supplier's personnel; and 
 
(ii) 
ACC Clients; 
 
(c) 
take all practical steps to ensure that no act or omission gives rise to, or is 
likely to give rise to, the issue of an improvement or prohibition notice, 
enforcement action or a prosecution under any health and safety legislation 
(including the HSAWA) against ACC or the Supplier; 
 
(d) 
advise ACC in writing as soon as possible of: 
 
(i) 
any hazards, risks, accidents, incidents or near misses to the 
Supplier's or a subcontractor's staff arising from any ACC Client's 
behaviour or condition; 
(ii) 
all notifiable events (as defined in the HSAWA) relating to the 
Services;  
(iii) 
any contact by any regulatory agency in relation to any health, safety 
or environmental matter relating to the Services (unless the Supplier is 
prohibited by law from so advising ACC); 
 
(e) 
comply with ACC's reasonable instructions in relation to any matter referred 
to  in sub clause (d). 
9. 
Personal and confidential information will be kept private and 
secure 
Protection of Personal Information 
9.1. 
You will comply with the Privacy Act 2020 and the Health Information Privacy Code 
2020 in connection with all Personal Information relating to Clients, accredited 
employers, levy payers, ACC personnel or any other individual that you obtain 
under or connection with this Contract. This includes: 
(a) 
collecting, using and disclosing Personal Information only where the 
collection, use or disclosure is permitted or authorised by the Privacy Act 
2020 or the Health Information Privacy Code 2020 

--- PAGE 16 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 14 
 
(b) 
having a plain English privacy notice or privacy statement for Clients that 
complies with the Privacy Act 2020 and the Health Information Privacy 
Code 2020   
(c) 
ensuring that any Personal Information that you have in your possession or 
control:  
(i) 
is protected by reasonable security safeguards against loss or 
unauthorised or unlawful access, use, modification or disclosure 
(ii) 
is not unlawfully transmitted, transferred, exported, processed or 
stored by you or a third party service provider, and 
(iii) 
is only accessed by authorised personnel who need to see it in 
connection with the Services 
(d) 
appointing a Privacy Officer 
(e) 
having a privacy policy which complies with the Privacy Act 2020 and the 
Health Information Privacy Code 2020 that includes: 
(i) 
measures to mitigate the occurrence of a Privacy Breach that follow 
good practice at the level expected from a leading supplier in the 
relevant profession or industry, and  
(ii) 
what to do if there is an actual or suspected Privacy Breach or near 
miss including procedures to notify ACC in accordance with clause 
9.4 and, when required, the Privacy Commissioner and any affected 
individual(s) 
(f) 
acting in a manner that facilitates ACC’s compliance with the Privacy Act 
2020 and the Health Information Privacy Code 2020, and 
(g) 
complying with any reasonable policies or directions from ACC relating to 
your collection, use or disclosure of Personal Information you obtain under 
or in connection with this Contract. 
Assessment 
9.2. 
You agree that we may assess your compliance with this clause 9 at any time 
on reasonable notice. You will cooperate with any privacy assessment, 
including completing self-assessments on request. You will provide ACC with 
a draft of any such privacy assessment and give ACC a reasonable 
opportunity to provide feedback on the drafts before being finalised. 

--- PAGE 17 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 15 
 
Protection of confidential non-personal information 
9.3. 
Each party confirms that it will not use or disclose the other Party's 
Confidential   Information to any person or organisation other than if: 
(a) 
use or disclosure is necessary to provide or use the Services 
(b) 
the other Party gives prior written approval for the use or disclosure 
(c) 
the use or disclosure is required by law (including under the Official Information 
Act 1982), Ministers or parliamentary convention 
(d) 
information disclosed has already become public, other than through a breach of 
the obligation of confidentiality by one of the Parties. 
 
What happens if there is a Privacy Breach 
9.4. 
If you become aware of an actual or suspected Privacy Breach or near miss involving 
any Personal Information that you obtain under or connection with this Contract: 
(a) 
you must notify ACC’s Relationship Manager by email (copying in ACC’s 
Privacy Officer: privacy.officer@acc.co.nz) and phone as soon as possible and 
within 24 hours 
(b) 
we will then work together to manage the implications and consequences, 
including by: 
(i) 
ensuring all relevant personnel are available to understand and manage 
the implications for any Clients and ACC 
(ii) 
providing all reasonable and legally permissible information about the 
actual or suspected Privacy Breach or near miss  
(iii) 
using reasonable endeavours to have prior discussions before making 
any public comments, including to media 
(iv) 
complying with ACC’s reasonable issues management procedures, and 
(v) 
identifying and implementing reasonable procedures to prevent such 
Privacy Breaches or near misses in the future 
(c) 
ACC may take any steps we believe in good faith are necessary to protect the 
security of any affected Personal Information, which may include suspending the 
Services or requiring you to suspend the access that personnel have to the 
Personal Information 
(d) 
if it is a Notifiable Privacy Breach and ACC has notification obligations under the 
Privacy Act 2020 because the Personal Information is deemed under the 
Privacy Act 2020 to be held by ACC alone, then: 
(i) 
ACC will be responsible for notifying the Privacy Commissioner and, if 
required, the affected individuals, and  
(ii) 
you will not make such notification on ACC's behalf without our prior 
written consent 

--- PAGE 18 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 16 
 
(e) 
if it is a Notifiable Privacy Breach and you have notification obligations under the 
Privacy Act (either because you are the party that holds the Personal 
Information or because both parties are deemed to hold it), you will use all 
reasonable endeavours to discuss your proposed notification with ACC before 
notifying the Privacy Commissioner and, if required, the affected individuals. 
 
Obligations for your personnel 
9.5. 
You will ensure that your personnel, service providers and subcontractors: 
(a) 
are aware of and comply with the obligations to protect Personal 
Information and Confidential Information in this Contract,  
(b) 
are aware of the character and sensitivity of Personal Information about 
Clients, 
(c) 
only access Personal Information if they need to see it in connection with 
the Services,  
(d) 
do not collect, use or disclose any Confidential Information or any  
Personal Information, except as allowed by this Contract, and 
(e) 
know when and how to report a Privacy Breach, security incident or 
conflict of interest that could affect the security, integrity or availability of 
Personal Information that you obtain under or in connection with this 
Contract. 
 
Recording of meetings by clients 
9.6. 
If a Client records (audio or video) a meeting with a service provider, and the service  
provider is aware of the recording, you will ensure that the service provider tells the 
Client that the service provider may also record or document the  meeting to ensure a 
complete and accurate record. You will also ensure that: 
(a) 
the service provider only collects, uses, stores and discloses such records or 
documents in accordance with this clause 9, and 
(b) 
tells the Client that the service provider or you may supply a copy of the 
record or document to ACC. 
 
Information about service providers  
9.7. 
You understand that ACC may disclose (for example on the internet) details of 
suppliers and service providers (including names, qualifications, experience and contact 
details). You will ensure that: 
(a) 
your service providers know that ACC can disclose this information; and 
(b) 
the details provided to ACC are accurate, and tell ACC if any details change. 

--- PAGE 19 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 17 
 
Privacy declaration 
9.8. 
ACC may from time to time request a declaration from you to confirm your compliance 
with this clause 9. If requested to do so, you must provide ACC with a signed 
declaration promptly and within the period reasonably requested by ACC. 
 
10. Charges and payment 
You charge us on a valid tax invoice 
10.1. The Charges are the total amount payable by ACC to you for delivery of the Services. 
Charges include all service item codes in a Service Schedule. If service items codes 
for travel are included in a Service Schedule, you can claim for travel under ACC’s 
travel policy. We will provide you with a copy of this policy. 
10.2. You must provide valid tax invoices for all Charges on the dates or at the times 
specified in the relevant Service Schedule. If the invoice you provide to us is not a 
valid tax invoice, we have no obligation to pay the Charges set out on it. A valid tax 
invoice must: 
(a) 
be clearly marked 'Tax invoice’ 
 
(b) 
contain correct information about you, us, and the Contract, including: 
(i) 
your name, address and GST number, if you are registered for GST 
(ii) 
ACC’s name and address, and be marked for the attention of the 
person or ACC office specified by ACC for that Service 
(iii) 
the date the invoice was issued 
(iv) 
the name of the relevant Service Schedule and a description of the 
Services supplied, including the amount of time spent in the delivery of 
the Services if payment is based on an hourly rate 
(v) 
the date the Services were provided 
(vi) 
contain ACC’s Contract reference or purchase order number, if there is 
one 
(vii) 
your Supplier ID (also called “Vendor ID”) 
 
(c) 
contain correct financial information, including: 
(i) 
all GST due 
(ii) 
the Charges due, calculated correctly in New Zealand currency or 
another currency agreed in writing by ACC and you 
(d) 
be supported by GST receipts, if expenses are claimed, and any other 
verifying documentation reasonably requested by ACC 
 

--- PAGE 20 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 18 
 
(e) 
be submitted electronically using one of ACC’s prescribed electronic methods 
(available on ACC’s website) unless the Service Schedule allows manual 
invoicing. 
 
10.3. Unless otherwise specified in each Service Schedule, the price for each Service is 
the entire amount you can charge for that Service. You must not charge any 
additional amount to ACC, any Client or any other person (as co-payment or part- 
charge or otherwise) for that Service. 
 
We will pay on invoice 
10.4. ACC will pay all complying invoices for Services provided according to this Contract. 
Payment will be in one lodgement to the bank account you specified in the relevant 
Service Schedule. If a complying invoice is received by ACC by the 10th day of the 
month following the period being billed, payment will be made on or before the 20th 
of the month following the period being billed. If the 20th of the month is not a 
business day, payment will be made on or before the first business day following the 
20th. If ACC pays an invoice and later determines that all or part of the invoice was 
for Services which were not provided according to this Contract, ACC can, at its 
discretion, and after consulting with you, recover the amount from you or deduct the 
amount from any payments due to you. 
10.5. If we cannot approve any invoice or part of an invoice for payment, we will advise 
you. We will detail on the remittance advice the reasons why we cannot approve 
payment, and what steps you need to take to obtain approval. After you take these 
steps, we will then make payment on or before the 20th of the month following the 
month that approval is given. If the 20th of the month is not a Business day, payment 
will be made on or before the first business day following the 20th. 
10.6. If you do not receive payment of all or part of a complying invoice, and we do not give 
a reason for not making payment, you will contact ACC’s provider helpline by phone 
or email and ask them to investigate and resolve the non-payment. 
10.7. We will not pay for a Service where the invoice for that Service is not received within 
12 months of the later date of: 
(a) 
the date the Service was provided 
 
(b) 
the date cover was granted by ACC. 
 
We do not guarantee to refer clients 
10.8. Despite anything stated or implied in this Contract, ACC does not have an obligation 
to make sure that Clients are referred to you. We do not guarantee you any minimum 
volume of Services or any minimum amount payable. 
 

--- PAGE 21 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 19 
 
11. Responsibilities of Relationship managers 
 
11.1. Relationship managers are named in each Service Schedule. Relationship 
managers are responsible for managing that Service Schedule, including: 
(a) 
managing the relationship between the Parties 
 
(b) 
managing your overall performance 
 
(c) 
overseeing the effective implementation of the Service Schedule 
 
(d) 
acting as a first point of contact for any issues that arise 
 
(e) 
identifying potential savings and improvements 
 
(f) 
co-ordinating all reporting and review meetings. 
 
11.2. If either Party changes its Relationship manager for any Service, it must, within a 
reasonable period, tell the other Party in writing the name and contact details of the 
replacement. ACC can advise you by publishing the new details on its provider 
website. 
 
12. How information will be managed and monitored 
 
12.1. You must: 
 
(a) 
keep and maintain records using prudent business practice and according to 
all applicable laws 
 
(b) 
make sure the records are easy to access, and 
 
(c) 
keep the records safe. 
 
12.2. When we make a reasonable request for information about the Services, you must 
give us that information. You must provide all information in a format we can use, and 
within a reasonable time. 
12.3. If we need information to comply with an enquiry or our statutory, parliamentary, or 
other reporting obligations, you must co-operate with us to provide information 
immediately. 
12.4. You must make your Records available to us during the term of the Contract and for 
10 years after the end date (unless you have already provided them to us). 
12.5. You must make sure that records provided by ACC or created for ACC, are securely 
managed. When records are disposed of, you must make sure they are securely 
destroyed. 
 

--- PAGE 22 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 20 
 
Keeping clinical records 
12.6. You must ensure that, where clinical records are required, you maintain clinical 
records that are clear and accurate. Your clinical records must: 
(a) 
meet the relevant professional standards for clinical record keeping regarding: 
(i) 
assessment 
(ii) 
Client discussion 
(iii) 
care, treatment and medications provided 
(iv) 
effectiveness of care or treatment 
(v) 
evidence of informed consent 
 
(b) 
be dated and signed and clearly attributable to the Service provider 
 
(c) 
contain the ACC45 number and the National Health Index (NHI) number (if 
relevant). 
 
13. Evaluation of services 
 
13.1. ACC has the right to evaluate any Service under this Contract, so that we can check 
compliance with organisational and Service quality requirements. 
13.2. Such evaluations can consider any and all aspects of this Contract. 
 
13.3. ACC will use any method of evaluation that we determine is appropriate based on the 
perceived level of risk. 
13.4. ACC can perform such evaluations itself or by using an appropriate subcontractor or 
other government agency. 
13.5. ACC will give you at least 10 business days’ notice of our intention to conduct an 
evaluation. If we believe that delay will unnecessarily prejudice the interests of any 
person, we may give you notice of our intention to carry out an evaluation within such 
other time ACC considers appropriate, but on no less than 24 hours’ notice. 
13.6. If ACC considers an evaluation is necessary, then subject to the requirements of 
relevant law, you will allow ACC access to the information necessary for that process. 
This includes your records and premises and the records and premises of any 
relevant subcontractor. You, and any relevant subcontractors will provide ACC with 
every reasonable facility for and assistance in obtaining access to undertake the 
evaluation. The person conducting the evaluation may (subject to the rights of Clients 
or other people receiving the Services) attend Services being provided, and talk with 
Clients and other providers or users of Services. 
 

--- PAGE 23 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 21 
 
Who pays for an evaluation 
13.7. We will not charge you and you will not charge us for any initial evaluation process. 
You will pay for any further evaluations about the same performance issues if you 
have not improved your Service standards to the level required by ACC within an 
agreed length of time. 
 
14. Improving services 
Process for changes to Service performance 
14.1. Reports and communications provided by you in relation to Service delivery, ACC 
monitoring of data and Service delivery, and findings from evaluations (including 
audits) may be used by ACC, in addition to other lawful uses, to improve Service 
performance. 
14.2. ACC and you will discuss reports to identify any issues and decide: 
 
(a) 
if performance could be expected to change, or 
 
(b) 
if there are other factors that provide a reasonable basis for the identified 
performance. 
 
14.3. If a change in performance is required, then we will work with you to develop required 
action(s) by each Party and the timeframes for progress review. 
14.4. If we have observed a change in performance to bring it within appropriate 
parameters, we will provide feedback to you and end the performance improvement 
process. 
14.5. If improvements have been evidenced, but further change in performance is required, 
both Parties will agree to an extension of the performance improvement plan. This 
plan will include any changes to the required action(s) by each Party and the agreed 
timeframes for those actions. 
14.6. If we do not observe sufficient improvement, at the end of either the initial or any 
subsequent performance improvement period, or if you do not agree to a 
performance improvement plan, we may issue a notice of breach of contract under 
clause 20.8. 
14.7. The powers or processes in this clause 14 do not limit ACC’s powers under clause 
20.8 to 20.10 
 

--- PAGE 24 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 22 
 
15. Limits on the contractual relationship 
 
15.1. You are an independent contractor. Nothing in this Contract constitutes a legal 
relationship between the Parties of partnership, joint venture, agency, or 
employment. You are responsible for your own and your service providers’ liabilities. 
Such liabilities include salaries, wages, holiday or redundancy payments, and any 
GST, corporate, personal and withholding taxes, ACC levies or other levies 
attributable to your business or to engaging your service providers. 
15.2. Neither Party has authority to bind or represent the other Party in any way or for any 
purpose. 
Transfer of rights or obligations 
15.3. Each Party may only transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Contract if it 
has the other Party’s written approval. ACC may, in its sole discretion, decide 
whether to give its approval. You must ask ACC for approval for any such transfer at 
least 30 business days before the date of the proposed transfer. 
15.4. If you transfer your rights or obligations without obtaining ACC’s written approval to 
the change, then we may give you a notice of breach under clause 20.8. An example 
of transferring your rights and obligations is a change in your shareholding or 
ownership that alters the effective control (unless you are a company whose shares 
are listed on any recognised stock exchange). 
The Contract does not affect statutory obligations 
15.5. Nothing in this Contract affects the statutory obligations of either Party to Clients. Nor 
does the Contract bind either Party to do or refrain from doing anything in a manner 
that is not consistent with the law. 
 
16. How you deal with subcontractors 
 
16.1. You must not enter into a contract with someone else to deliver any part of the 
Services without ACC's written approval. If subcontracting is allowed for a Service, 
that will be stated in the Service Schedule. 
16.2. If you assign, transfer, subcontract or otherwise dispose of any of your liabilities or 
obligations under this Contract, you continue to be responsible for those liabilities or 
obligations. 
16.3. You are responsible for making sure that any subcontractor is suitable and has the 
capability and capacity to deliver that aspect of the Services being subcontracted. 

--- PAGE 25 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 23 
 
16.4. You must make sure that: 
 
(a) 
every Contract you sign with a subcontractor contains provisions that enable 
you to comply with your obligations under this Contract 
 
(b) 
the terms in any subcontract you sign are consistent with this Contract 
 
(c) 
each subcontractor is fully aware of your obligations under this Contract. 
 
16.5. You must advise ACC immediately if a subcontractor experiences an insolvency 
event or a bankruptcy or liquidation. 
 
17. How to cover risks 
Insurance and professional indemnity 
17.1. It is your responsibility to make sure your risks of doing business are adequately 
covered, whether by insurance or otherwise. If a Service Schedule specifies 
insurance, you must: 
(a) 
take out the specified insurance, with a reputable insurer, and maintain that 
insurance cover for the term of this Contract and for a period of three years 
after the end date, and 
 
(b) 
within 10 business days of a request from ACC, provide a certificate 
confirming the nature of the insurance cover and proving that each policy is 
current. 
 
17.2. You will ensure that you and your Service providers: 
 
(a) 
have or retain membership with a recognised medical defence organisation (if 
you or your service providers are eligible to be members), or 
 
(b) 
have professional indemnity insurance to cover the period of the relevant 
Service Schedule. 
 
17.3. You will, within 10 business days of a request from ACC, provide evidence confirming 
the membership or insurance referred to in clause 17.2. 
 
18. Conflicts of interest 
Avoiding conflicts of interest 
18.1. You confirm that, as at the start date, you have no conflict of interest in providing the 
Services or entering into this Contract. You must do your best to avoid situations that 
may lead to a conflict of interest. 

--- PAGE 26 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 24 
 
18.2. If a conflict of interest arises, you must tell us immediately in writing. You and ACC 
must discuss, agree and record in writing whether the conflict of interest can be 
managed and, if so, how it will be managed. Each Party must pay its own costs for 
managing a conflict of interest. 
Refusing financial incentives 
18.3. If you have a financial interest in an entity that supplies, procures or manufactures 
products or services, you must obtain ACC’s written approval before using those 
products or services to provide the Services described in the Service Schedules. 
18.4. If you procure products or services to provide the Services, you must not accept or 
receive (or permit any service providers to accept or receive) any incentive, rebate or 
reward for the procurement. You may not receive any gift, voucher, cash, trip or 
travel, merchandise or equipment or any discount, rebate or credit towards such 
items or an incentive or reward in any other form. 
18.5. You must also not accept or receive (or permit any service providers to accept or 
receive) any incentive or reward for recommending any products or services. 
No Collusion 
18.6. You will not consult or communicate with any other supplier or potential supplier to 
ACC, or enter into any arrangement or understanding with any other supplier or 
potential supplier to ACC about any matter which is likely to or may have the effect of 
reducing competition for the Services including: 
(a) 
Prices for the Services; or 
(b) 
Methods, factors or formulas used to calculate prices for the Services. 
 
 
19. Process for resolving disputes 
 
19.1. The Parties agree to use their best endeavours to resolve any dispute or difference 
that may arise under this Contract. The following process will apply to disputes: 
(a) 
The Party must notify the other if it considers a matter is in dispute. 
 
(b) 
The Relationship managers will attempt to resolve the dispute through direct 
negotiation. 
 
(c) 
If the Relationship managers have not resolved the dispute within 10 business 
days of notification or any later agreed date, they will refer it to the Parties’ 
senior managers for resolution. 
 
(d) 
If the senior managers have not resolved the dispute within 10 business days 
of it being referred to them, the Parties will refer the dispute to mediation or 
some other form of alternative dispute resolution agreed by the Parties. 

--- PAGE 27 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 25 
 
19.2. If a dispute is referred to mediation, the mediation will be conducted: 
 
(a) 
by a single mediator agreed by the Parties or, if they cannot agree, appointed 
by the Chair of Resolution Institute 
 
(b) 
on the terms of the Resolution Institute standard mediation contract, and 
 
(c) 
at a fee to be agreed by the Parties or, if they cannot agree, at a fee 
determined by the Chair of Resolution Institute. 
 
19.3. Each Party will pay its own costs of mediation or alternative dispute resolution under 
this clause 19 and half the mediator’s fee. 
19.4. If there is a dispute, each Party will continue to perform its obligations under this 
Contract as far as practical given the nature of the dispute. 
19.5. Each party agrees not to start any court action over a dispute until it has complied 
with the process described in clause 19, unless court action is necessary to preserve 
a Party's rights. 
 
20. Ending this Contract 
By notice as of right 
20.1. Either party may, without incurring any liability to the other for damages or other 
compensation, at any time give to the other no less than: 
(a) 
three calendar months’ notice of termination of this Contract and all the 
Services, or 
 
(b) 
three calendar months’ notice of the cancellation (or any lesser notice period 
for cancellation permitted under the applicable Service Schedule) from this 
Contract of a particular Service Schedule and the Service(s) described in that 
Service Schedule. 
 
20.2. The date (‘termination date’) on which this Contract and all the Services must come 
to an end is the later of: 
(a) 
three calendar months after the date on which notice under clause 20.1 is 
received by you 
 
(b) 
any date specified in the notice as the date on which this Contract will come to 
an end. 
 
20.3. The date (‘cancellation date’) when the Service Schedule and the Service(s) 
described in that Service Schedule are removed from this Contract is the later of: 
(a) 
three calendar months (or any lesser notice period for cancellation permitted 
under the applicable Service Schedule) after the date on which notice under 
clause 20.1 is received by you 

--- PAGE 28 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 26 
 
(b) 
any date specified in the notice as the date at which the Service Schedule is 
to be cancelled. 
 
Termination without notice on insolvency 
20.4. The Supplier’s insolvency or liquidation is a deemed breach of Contract. This 
Contract and all the Services will end immediately (without any requirement for prior 
notice). This will not apply, however, if the liquidation is for the purpose of 
reconstruction or amalgamation, the terms of which have been approved by ACC. 
20.5. The date you are judged bankrupt or the date of appointment of a liquidator is the 
‘termination date’; that is, the date on which this Contract and all the Services will 
end. 
Termination with notice on insolvency 
20.6. An insolvency event may be deemed to be a breach of Contract. If an insolvency 
event has occurred and if, at any time after that event, ACC gives notice to you of 
termination of this Contract and all of the Services, this Contract and all the Services 
will end immediately. 
20.7. The date a notice given by ACC under clause 20.6 is received by you is the 
‘termination date’; that is, the date on which this Contract and all the Services will 
end. 
Termination for breach 
20.8. If either Party considers that the other has breached any provision of this Contract, 
that Party may give notice to the other specifying the breach. The notice must give 
the other Party 10 business days to stop or to remedy the breach (if it is capable of 
remedy). ACC will consider you have breached this Contract if we consider on 
reasonable grounds that you have defrauded ACC (whether or not you are 
prosecuted for that fraud). 
20.9. If the breach has not stopped or been remedied within 10 business days, the Party 
that gave the notice may forward to the other Party a notice of termination of: 
(a) 
this Contract and all of the Services, or 
 
(b) 
any particular Service Schedule(s). 
 
20.10. The date on which the Contract and all the Services or the relevant Service 
Schedule(s) will terminate (that is, the ‘termination date’) is: 
(a) 
the date of receipt by the other Party of the notice of termination given under 
clause 20.9, or 
 
(b) 
any later date specified for that purpose in the notice. 

--- PAGE 29 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 27 
 
21. Rights after cancellation or expiry 
Release from cancellation date or end date 
21.1. You are released from the obligation to further provide the Service(s) described in a 
Service Schedule from the earlier of: 
(a) 
the cancellation date for a particular Service Schedule, 
 
(b) 
the end date of a particular Service Schedule. 
 
21.2. ACC is released from the obligation to pay for such Service(s) provided after that 
date. 
Rights after termination, cancellation, or expiry 
21.3. Termination, cancellation or expiry does not affect any rights, other remedies or 
obligations of either Party under this Contract or under legislation that arose before or 
on the date of termination, cancellation or expiry. These rights, other remedies and 
obligations continue to have effect and may be enforced after the relevant date. 
21.4. Termination or cancellation does not affect any other rights or remedies of the Party 
who gave the notice of termination or cancellation. If you have received money for 
services that ACC did not need to pay you for because you breached this Contract, 
we may deduct any amount we are entitled to from any money we owe you. 
Handing over the Services 
21.5. You will, within 10 business days of the end date or termination date or cancellation 
date of any Service Schedule, provide all reasonable assistance and co-operation 
needed for a smooth handover of the Services to ACC or any person appointed by 
ACC. 
 
22. Suspension of Services 
 
22.1. ACC can give you written notice that all or any of the Services are suspended if ACC 
considers on reasonable grounds: 
(a) 
that you may have breached this Contract, and 
 
(b) 
for any reason it is not appropriate for you to continue to provide the Services 
or any of the Services (for example while the issue is investigated). 

--- PAGE 30 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 28 
 
22.2. If you receive a suspension notice under clause 22.1, you will stop providing 
Services: 
(a) 
until the earlier of: 
(i) 
the date specified in the notice, or 
(ii) 
the date ACC and you agree the Services can begin again 
 
(b) 
permanently, if the Contract or the Service Schedule for those Services is 
terminated or cancelled while the suspension is in force. 
 
22.3. ACC can give you written notice that any service provider is suspended from 
providing all or any of the Services if ACC believes, on reasonable grounds that, for 
any reason, it is not appropriate for the Service provider to continue (for example, 
while the issue is investigated). 
22.4. If you receive a suspension notice under clause 22.3, you will stop the service 
provider from providing Services: 
(a) 
until the earlier of: 
(i) 
the date specified in the notice, or 
(ii) 
the date ACC and you agree the service provider can start providing 
Services again 
(b) 
permanently, if you and ACC agree that the service provider will no longer 
provide Services under this Contract or the Service Schedule, or the service 
provider is removed in accordance with the relevant Service Schedule. 
 
22.5. The powers in this clause 22 do not limit ACC’s powers under clause 20.8 to 20.10. 
 
 
23. Notices and communication 
Notices 
23.1. All notices to a Party must be delivered by hand or sent by post, courier or email. The 
address to be used for notices is the address for that Party stated in the relevant 
Service Schedule. 
23.2. Notices must be signed or, in the case of email, sent by the appropriate manager or 
person having authority to do so. 

--- PAGE 31 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 29 
 
23.3. A notice will be considered to be received: 
 
(a) 
if delivered by hand, on the date it is delivered 
 
(b) 
if sent by post within New Zealand, on the 3rd business day after the date it 
was sent 
 
(c) 
if sent by post internationally, on the 7th business day after the date it was 
sent 
 
(d) 
if sent by courier, on the date it is delivered 
 
(e) 
if sent by email, at the time the email enters the recipient's information system 
as evidenced by a delivery receipt requested by the sender provided that it is 
not returned undelivered or as an error. 
 
23.4. A notice received after 5pm on a business day or on a day that is not a business day 
will be considered to be received on the next business day. 
How we will provide policies 
23.5. When this Contract requires us to provide a copy of policies or procedures, we may 
meet the requirement by providing a paper copy, an electronic copy or a link to an 
internet page. 
 
24. Business continuity 
 
24.1. You will maintain at all times adequate business continuity arrangements, taking into 
account good practice. You will use all reasonable endeavours to implement such 
business continuity arrangements whenever necessary. Your business continuity 
arrangements will include plans for responding to incidents and business disruptions 
so that you can continue to provide Services. 
24.2. You will provide us with details of your after-hours contact points when we ask you to 
do so. 
24.3. You will provide a business continuity plan to us where one is required in a Service 
Schedule. 
 
25. Extraordinary events 
 
25.1. Neither Party will be liable to the other for any failure to perform its obligations under 
this Contract where the failure is caused by an extraordinary event. 

--- PAGE 32 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 30 
 
25.2. A Party who wishes to claim suspension of its obligations because of an 
extraordinary event must notify the other Party as soon as reasonably possible. The 
notice must state: 
(a) 
the nature of the circumstances giving rise to the extraordinary event 
 
(b) 
the extent of that Party's inability to perform under this Contract 
 
(c) 
the likely duration of that non-performance, and what steps are being taken to 
minimise the impact of the extraordinary event on the delivery of Services. 
 
25.3. If ACC, acting reasonably, requires the Services to be supplied during the period 
affected by an extraordinary event then, despite clause 25.1 we may terminate this 
Contract immediately by giving notice. 
25.4. If a Party is unable to perform any obligations under this Contract for 20 business 
days or more because of an extraordinary event, the other Party may terminate this 
Contract immediately by giving notice. 
 
26. ACC property 
 
26.1. If we ask, you will deliver to us all correspondence, documents, papers, digital library 
and other property of any nature that may be in your possession or power belonging 
to ACC. This clause applies both during and after the term of a Service Schedule or 
this Contract. We will not exercise this power if it will hinder your performance of this 
Contract. 
26.2. Clause 26.1 extends equally to any copy of all or part of the correspondence, 
documents, paper, digital library or other property referred to in that clause. 
26.3. All information, methods and techniques supplied by you and communicated to ACC 
will remain your property. 
 
27. Organisational quality standards 
 
27.1. Where a standard refers to the requirement for a written policy, procedure, 
programme, information or plan, you will provide us with a copy on request. 

--- PAGE 33 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 31 
 
27.2. You are required to: 
 
(a) 
have written and applied protocols and policies that outline the standards for 
the Services 
 
(b) 
have in place, and follow, written protocols, procedures and policies for 
managing the Services. This document needs to be kept up to date and made 
readily available for staff to read. The document will include written 
procedures on the following: 
(i) 
receiving and responding to complaints 
(ii) 
systems to measure customer satisfaction with the Services 
(iii) 
collecting and storing information, and keeping it private 
(iv) 
roles and responsibilities of those providing the Services 
(v) 
culturally appropriate practices 
(vi) 
rights and responsibilities of Clients 
(vii) 
complying with relevant legislation, regulations, ethical standards and 
clinical protocols. 
(c) 
have a documented policy about dealing with vulnerable Clients which will at 
a minimum be consistent with ACC’s policy which we will provide to you. 
 
27.3. You will make sure that: 
 
(a) 
all facilities used to provide Services are accessible to people with disabilities. 
If a Client is unable to access your facility, you will tell ACC and negotiate with 
ACC (including about any additional travel costs) to arrange an alternative 
location at no additional cost to the Client. 
 
(b) 
Service providers provide the Services from safe, well-maintained, hygienic 
facilities that are suitably designed and equipped for the Services 
 
(c) 
all equipment used in the Services is safe and maintained to comply with 
safety and use standards. 
 
Interpreting services 
27.4. Where Clients require interpreting or translating services to communicate adequately 
with service providers, you will ensure that such services are supplied without 
additional cost to the Client. 

--- PAGE 34 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 32 
 
28. General 
This is the entire Contract 
28.1. This Contract, including any variation and any Service Schedule, records everything 
agreed between the parties about the Services. It replaces any previous verbal or 
written communications, negotiations, arrangements or Contracts for the Services 
that the Parties had with each other before this Contract was signed. 
Delaying does not waive rights 
28.2. If a Party breaches this Contract and the other Party does not immediately enforce its 
rights resulting from the breach that: 
(a) 
does not mean that the Party in breach is released or excused from 
performing the obligation at the time or in the future, and 
 
(b) 
does not prevent the other Party from exercising its rights resulting from the 
breach at a later time. 
 
New Zealand law, currency and time 
28.3. This Contract will be governed and interpreted under the laws of New Zealand. 
 
28.4. All money is in New Zealand dollars, unless a Service Schedule specifies a different 
currency. 
28.5. Dates and times are New Zealand time. 
 
Publication of information about this Contract 
28.6. You may disclose the existence of this Contract. You must obtain our written 
approval before making reference to ACC or this Contract, or using our logo, in your 
publications, public statements, promotional material or promotional activities. 
Signing the Contract 
28.7. The date of execution is the date this Contract is signed. This Contract is properly 
signed if each Party signs the same copy, or separate identical copies, of the cover 
page. If this Contract is signed on two separate dates or separate copies are signed, 
the date of execution is the later of the two dates. Where separate copies are signed, 
the signed copy can be the original document, or an emailed copy. 

--- PAGE 35 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 33 
 
Clauses that remain in force 
28.8. The clauses that, by their nature, should remain in force on expiry or ending of this 
Contract do so, including: 
(a) 
clause 1 (definitions) 
 
(b) 
clause 9 (personal and confidential information will be kept private and 
secure) 
 
(c) 
clause 12 (how information will be managed and monitored) 
 
(d) 
clause 17 (how to cover risk) 
 
(e) 
clause 19 (process for resolving disputes) 
 
(f) 
clause 20 (ending this Contract) 
 
(g) 
clause 26 (ACC property), and 
 
(h) 
clause 28 (general). 
 
Precedence 
28.9. If there is any conflict or difference between the documents forming this Contract (as 
stated on the cover page) then the order of precedence is: 
(a) 
variation made in accordance with clause 4 
 
(b) 
Service Schedule 
 
(c) 
Standard Terms and Conditions. 
 
29. Multiple suppliers 
 
29.1. If this Contract is signed by more than one Supplier, the liability of all Suppliers under 
this Contract will be joint and several. 
 
30. Services for injured employees of accredited employers 
Purchase of Services by accredited employers 
30.1. You agree that accredited employers are permitted to purchase the Services for their 
injured employees and that you will provide Services to those injured employees, 
subject to the provisions of clauses 30.2 to 30.4 below. 

--- PAGE 36 ---
CONTRACT FOR SERVICES—STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS MARCH 2023 
P A  G  E 34 
 
Information to accredited employers 
30.2. We may release information about this Contract (including prices) to accredited 
employers if the accredited employer has first agreed in writing with ACC to keep that 
information confidential and to use it only for the purpose of purchasing Services. 
Access 
30.3. During the term of any Service Schedule, you will provide Services to injured 
employees of such accredited employers: 
(a) 
on the same terms and prices as specified in this Contract (subject to any 
minor adjustments to this Contract that may be necessary to give effect to this 
clause 30, and to any changes in those terms and prices subsequently agreed 
between you and accredited employer) 
 
(b) 
as if ‘ACC’ in this Contract was a reference to the particular accredited 
employer except that an accredited employer cannot exercise or enforce 
rights which by their nature are intended to be exclusive to ACC including the 
following clauses of these Standard Terms and Conditions: 
(i) 
clauses 4.2 to 4.4 
(ii) 
clauses 8.3 and 8.4 
(iii) 
clause 9.6 
(iv) 
clause 13 
(v) 
clause 14 
(vi) 
clauses 15.3 and 15.4 
(vii) 
clause 22. 
For the purposes of this clause, any injured employee of an accredited 
employer is deemed to be a ‘Client’. 
ACC not liable for purchasing by accredited employers 
30.4. ACC’s role is to bring you and accredited employers together. You agree that ACC 
and each accredited employer is only liable for the individual purchases made by us 
or that employer, and neither of them has any joint liability (except as provided in 
section 187(3) of the AC Act). All communications, invoicing and reporting about 
injured employees will go to the accredited employer of the injured employee or 
injured employees who receive the Services. 
