Housing Modification (HMOD) and Housing Assessment (HMA) Services

Operational Guidelines

September 2025. This is a living document and will be updated as required.

Who are these guidelines for?

These guidelines are intended to be used by: ACC's contracted Suppliers of Housing Modification Services; ACC's contracted Suppliers of Housing Assessment Services; and ACC staff.

Housing Modification Service

ACC can modify residential premises in New Zealand where the client lives or proposes to live, and which are owned, rented, or otherwise lawfully occupied by the client. The Housing Modification Suppliers assist ACC and our contracted Housing Assessors to identify and provide clients with the most appropriate housing modifications to meet their injury-related needs. This may include, where appropriate, temporary solutions within the client's home or workplace to enable the client to return home/work safely until permanent modification solutions can be undertaken.

Definition of Housing Modifications

Housing Modifications assist clients to live as independently and safely as possible by removing structural barriers and/or adding fixed features in their homes to meet their identified injury-related needs. Housing Modifications fall within these groupings:

Grab-rails: Installation of internal/external grab-rails. Excludes custom-made or one-off handrail solutions that require fabrication.

Minor Housing Modifications: modifications that do not require building consent, e.g. minor ramps less than 1m in height, decks/landings less than 1m in height, low rise lifts, stair lifts (chair), custom-made/one-off handrails, door widening, easy steps less than 1m in height, fencing/gates, hand-held showers.

Standard Modifications: modifications that require building consent, e.g. ramps exceeding 1m in height, decks/landings in excess of 1m, bathroom modifications including wet area showers, stair lifts (platform), covered transfer areas, kitchen/laundry modifications.

Complex Modifications: require building consent AND an extension to the footprint of the existing home, and/or a through floor lift solution (e.g. room extensions, new bathrooms requiring sanitation plumbing).

Eligibility

A client is eligible to receive housing modifications if they have: an accepted claim, and an entitlement to receive funding for housing/workplace modifications (social or vocational).

Exclusions

The Housing Modification Service excludes funding to modify: hospitals; hostels; hotels or motels; other institutions (e.g. schools); the removal of housing modifications that are no longer required; repair or replacement of any housing modifications; the provision of Social Rehabilitation Housing Assessment Services; short-term injury-related needs (e.g. elderly clients where equipment can be installed instead); housing appliances unless required as a result of the modification; and rest homes where the property does not meet the definition of a "Home". A residential unit in a retirement village may be considered a "home" under the Accident Compensation Act 2001 depending on the facts — ACC staff should seek advice from Technical Services for these applications.

The Housing Modification Assessment Service specifically excludes: Housing Modification Services; and other social rehabilitation assessment services.

Considerations for workplace modifications

Workplace modifications may be provided to ACC clients as part of Vocational Rehabilitation Services if the modification/equipment is not the responsibility of the employer to provide, there is an assessed injury-related need, and the modifications will assist the client to return to work. Employers are required by law to provide reasonable accommodation to staff (e.g. physical adjustments allowing access to a building, or reallocating aspects of a job) — NZ Standard 4121 'Design for access and mobility' sets out accessibility requirements for buildings under the Building Code and Building Act 2004.

Assessment and referral for Housing Modifications

ACC or a health professional may identify that a client has a need for housing modifications. Grab rails (urgent or non-urgent): ACC submits an ACC7404 directly to the Housing Modification Service — no purchase order is required if the purchase and installation of grab rails costs less than $1000 excl. GST (non-urgent) or $1500 excl. GST (urgent). For minor, standard, and complex modifications, a referral is made to a Housing Assessor who assesses the client's injury-related needs and, where appropriate, considers equipment solutions (via the Managed Rehabilitation Equipment Service / MRES) before recommending a housing modification.

Jointly Funded Housing Modifications

Where housing modifications benefit people other than the ACC client (e.g. a shared bathroom), ACC and the client/household may jointly fund the additional cost above what would otherwise be required to meet the client's injury-related needs alone.

Health and Safety

Suppliers must report incidents (e.g. injuries during building works) to ACC and follow guidance for hazardous substances that may be encountered during modification work, including asbestos, biological hazards, lead-based paint, and methamphetamine contamination.

Source: Housing Modification (HMOD) and Housing Assessment (HMA) Services Operational Guidelines, September 2025, www.acc.co.nz/assets/provider/Housing-Modification-and-Housing-Assessment-Services-Operational-Guidelines.pdf.
