
--- PAGE 1 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026                                                                                 Page 1 of 34 
SERVICE SCHEDULE FOR NURSING 
SERVICES 
CONTRACT NO: _____ 
 
A. 
QUICK REFERENCE INFORMATION 
1. 
TERM FOR PROVIDING NURSING SERVICE 
1.1 
The Term for the provision of Nursing Services is the period from 1 March 2025 
(Start Date) until 29 February 2028 (End Date) or such earlier date upon which the 
period is lawfully terminated or cancelled. 
1.2. 
Prior to the End Date, the Parties may agree in writing to extend the Term of this 
Service Schedule for two further terms of two years each. Any decision to extend 
the Term or any part of the Term, will be based on: 
1.2.1. 
the Parties agreeing on the extension, in writing prior to the End Date; 
and 
1.2.2. 
ACC being satisfied with the Supplier’s performance and delivery of the 
Services; and 
1.2.3. 
all other provisions of this Service Schedule either continuing to apply 
during such extended Term(s) or being renegotiated to the satisfaction 
of both Parties. 
1.3. 
There is no obligation on the part of ACC to extend the Term of this Service 
Schedule, even if the Supplier has satisfactorily performed all the Services. 
2. 
SPECIFIED AREA (PART B, CLAUSE 4) 
2.1. 
Services will be delivered within the following geographic areas: 
_____ 

--- PAGE 2 ---
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026                                                                                 Page 2 of 34 
 
3. 
SERVICE ITEMS AND PRICES (PART B, CLAUSE 13) 
Table 1 - Service Items and Prices 
Service 
Item Code 
Service Item 
Description 
Service Item Definition 
Price  
(excl. GST) 
Pricing Unit 
Note: The initial assessment, Doppler Assessments, travel and Low Cost Consumables are 
included in the Short, Medium and Long Term Package prices and Extended Nursing consultation 
fee. High Cost consumables may be invoiced where required on top of the packages and 
consultation fees. 
NS01 
Short 
Term 
Nursing Package 
As described in Part B, clause 
5.8 
Travel costs are included in the 
packaged price and cannot be 
invoiced separately 
$525.40 
Package 
Price 
NS02 
Medium 
Term 
Nursing Package 
As described in Part B, clause 
5.9  
Travel costs are included in the 
packaged price and cannot be 
invoiced separately 
$1194.25 
Package 
Price 
NS03 
Long 
Term 
Nursing Package 
As described in Part B, clause 
5.10 
Travel costs are included in the 
packaged price and cannot be 
invoiced separately 
$2316.38 
Package 
Price 
NS04 
Extended Nursing 
As described in Part B, clause 
5.11 
Travel costs are included in the 
service item price and cannot 
be invoiced separately 
$111.88 
Per 
consultation 
NS05 
Ongoing Nursing 
As described in Part B, clause 
5.12 
Travel costs can be invoiced in 
accordance 
with 
Travel 
service items below 
$100.55 
Per hour 
NS06 
Treatment 
of 
Subsequent 
Injury 
As described in Part B, clause 
6.1 
Travel costs are included in the 
service item price and cannot 
be invoiced separately 
$37.90 
Per 
consultation 
NS07 
Oversight 
Consultation by a 
Designated 
Provider 
As described in Part B, clause 
6.2 
Travel costs can be invoiced in 
accordance 
with 
Travel 
service items below if the 
Designated Provider does not 
share 
travel 
arrangements 
with the treating nurse 
$109.00 
Per 
consultation 

--- PAGE 3 ---
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026                                                                                 Page 3 of 34 
 
Service 
Item Code 
Service Item 
Description 
Service Item Definition 
Price  
(excl. GST) 
Pricing Unit 
NS10 
Medical 
Consumables 
per consultation 
As described in Part B, clause 
6.3 
Actual and 
reasonable 
cost 
Actual 
and 
reasonable 
cost 
NS20 
Comprehensive 
Nursing 
Assessment 
As described in Part B, clause 
6.4 
Travel costs can be invoiced in 
accordance 
with 
Travel 
service items below 
$603.62 
Per 
Assessment 
NS20T 
Comprehensive 
Nursing 
Assessment 
– 
Telehealth 
As described in Part B, clause 
6.5 
Travel 
costs 
cannot 
be 
invoiced for Comprehensive 
Nursing 
Assessments 
completed via Telehealth. 
$603.62 
Per 
Assessment 
Note: 1. Travel is payable for Ongoing Nursing, Oversight Consultation with Designated Provider 
and Comprehensive Nursing Assessment. 
2. Accommodation is only payable for Comprehensive Nursing Assessment. 
NSTD10 
Travel Distance 
A contribution towards travel 
in accordance with Part B, 
clause 15 
$0.82 
Per Kilometre 
NSTT1 
Travel Time 
A contribution towards travel 
in accordance with Part B, 
clause 15 
$100.55 
Per hour 
NSTT1D 
Travel 
Time 
– 
Designated 
Providers 
For a ‘Designated Provider’ 
only. 
Contribution 
towards 
travel in accordance with Part 
B, clause 15 
$109.00 
Per hour 
NSTA1 
Air travel 
Air travel is in accordance with 
Part B, clause 15 
Actual and 
reasonable 
cost 
 Per trip 
NST6 
All other Travel 
Costs for return travel by ferry, 
taxi, 
rental 
car, 
public 
transport and parking when: 
return travel is via the most 
direct, practicable route; and 
the 
return 
travel 
exceeds 
20km. 
Actual and 
reasonable 
cost 
 Per trip 
NSAC 
Accommodation 
Payable in accordance with 
Part B, clause 15.5 
Actual and 
reasonable 
cost 
to 
a 
maximum 
of $282.97 
Per night 
 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026                                                                                 Page 4 of 34 
 
Price Reviews 
ACC will review pricing when, at ACC’s sole discretion, we consider a review 
necessary. The factors ACC may take into account during a review include, but 
are not limited to: 
• 
general inflation; 
• 
changes in service component costs; 
• 
substantial changes in the market. 
If ACC finds that the factors we take into account have not had a significant impact 
on price, the prices will remain unchanged. 
If ACC provides a price increase, the Supplier must agree any adjustment in 
writing. The price increase will take effect from a date specified by ACC. 
4. 
RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS, 
CLAUSE 11) 
Table 2 - Relationship Management 
Level 
ACC 
Supplier 
Client 
Recovery Team/ Recovery 
Team Member 
Individual 
staff 
or 
operational 
contact 
Relationship 
and 
performance management 
Engagement 
and 
Performance Manager 
Operational 
contact/ 
National 
Manager 
Service management 
Portfolio Team or equivalent 
National Manager 

--- PAGE 5 ---
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026                                                                                 Page 5 of 34 
 
5. 
ADDRESSES FOR NOTICES (STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS, 
CLAUSE 23) 
NOTICES FOR ACC TO: 
ACC Health Procurement) 
Justice Centre 
(for deliveries) 
19 Aitken Street 
Wellington 6011 
P O Box 242 
(for mail) 
Wellington 6140 
Marked: “Attention: Procurement Partner” 
Phone: 0800 400 503 
Email: health.procurement@acc.co.nz 
NOTICES FOR SUPPLIER TO: 
_____ 
_____ 
_____ 
(for deliveries) 
_____ 
_____ 
_____ 
(for mail) 
_____ 
_____ _____ 
Marked: “Attention: _____ _____, _____” 
Phone: _____ 
Mobile: _____ 
Email: _____ 
 
 

--- PAGE 6 ---
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026                                                                                 Page 6 of 34 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
PURPOSE ...................................................................................................... 7 
2. 
SERVICE OBJECTIVES .................................................................................... 7 
3. 
SERVICE COMMENCEMENT ........................................................................... 7 
4. 
SPECIFIED AREA (PART A, CLAUSE 2) ............................................................ 10 
5. 
SERVICE REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................ 11 
6. 
ASSOCIATED NURSING SERVICES ................................................................ 15 
7. 
SERVICE SPECIFIC QUALITY REQUIREMENTS ................................................ 22 
8. 
SERVICE EXIT .............................................................................................. 23 
9. 
EXCLUSIONS ............................................................................................... 24 
10. 
LINKAGES ................................................................................................... 25 
11. 
PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS .................................................................. 25 
12. 
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS ....................................................................... 25 
13. 
OPERATIONAL CONTACT ............................................................................. 26 
14. 
PAYMENT AND INVOICING ........................................................................... 26 
15. 
PROVIDER TRAVEL ....................................................................................... 26 
16. 
SERVICE QUALITY STANDARDS .................................................................... 28 
17. 
HEALTH AND SAFETY ................................................................................... 30 
18. 
INFORMATION SECURITY ............................................................................. 31 
19. 
BROADER OUTCOMES ................................................................................. 32 
20. 
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS .......................................................... 32 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 7 of 34 
B. 
SERVICE SPECIFICATIONS FOR NURSING SERVICES 
1. 
PURPOSE 
1.1 
ACC wishes to purchase Nursing Services from the Supplier. 
1.2 
The purpose of the Service is to: 
1.2.1 
provide Clients with timely access to quality, evidence-based Nursing 
Services for injury related needs; and 
1.2.2. 
provide treatment for the injury related needs of Clients whose needs are 
unable to be managed by their General Practice Team. 
2. 
SERVICE OBJECTIVES 
2.1 
ACC will measure the success of this Service based on the following objectives: 
2.1.1 
Client centred: The Service Provider will assess the Client’s needs, and 
develop a treatment and prevention plan in partnership with the Client.  The 
Client will receive a high quality, effective service and be discharged from 
the service when the injury has resolved sufficiently enough as to be 
managed by the General Practice Team or, where the Client is unable to 
attend the General Practice Team, is unlikely to need further treatment. 
2.1.2 
Flexible: The Services are provided to Clients in the most appropriate 
environment. 
2.1.3 
Cost effective: 
2.1.3.1 
Services are only delivered for the treatment of a covered injury 
and where the Nursing Service is the most clinically appropriate 
Service to meet the Client’s needs. 
2.1.3.2 
The Supplier will provide Services that meet the Client’s needs 
in the most cost effective manner possible (e.g. where clinically 
appropriate using longer lasting high cost consumables thereby 
reducing the number of visits required). 
3. 
SERVICE COMMENCEMENT 
Eligibility 
3.1 
Clients must have an accepted ACC claim and the Services must be directly related 
to the covered injury. 
 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 8 of 34 
3.2 
The Supplier must ensure all Nursing Services provided are for the purpose of directly 
treating the Client’s covered personal injury. The Supplier may provide Services 
where: 
3.2.1 
A Client’s injury cannot be reasonably managed by their General Practice 
Team. 
3.2.2 
The Client is physically unable or unsafe to attend their General Practice 
Team. 
3.2.3 
The referral states that the General Practice Team or other referrer has 
determined the level of injury complexity is best managed by this Service. 
3.2.4 
The Client requires service provision outside of the General Practice 
Team’s practice hours, and/or 
3.2.5 
The Client is not enrolled with a General Practice Team. 
Eligibility exclusions 
3.3 
Services may not be provided while a Client’s covered injury is being managed 
acutely under Public Health Acute Services (PHAS) provisions of the Accident 
Compensation Act 2001 by any Health New Zealand - Te Whatu Ora district or other 
treatment provider commissioned to provide PHAS care. 
3.4 
The Supplier cannot provide Services under the Nursing Services contract and then 
undertake additional nursing care through Cost of Treatment Regulations or, vice 
versa for the same injury except in cases: 
3.4.1 
Where the Client requires nurse led care for a separate injury on the same 
claim that they receive Nursing Services for, the Supplier in this 
circumstance can invoice for treatment of the separate injury under Cost of 
Treatment Regulations (e.g. outpatient fracture clinic under Cost of 
Treatment Regulations on the same claim as Nursing Service for wound 
management). 
3.4.2 
Where a Nursing Services Provider identifies a new injury caused by a new 
accident while treating a Client either for a health-related issue or under 
this contract for a previous injury, where: 
3.4.2.1 
The provider is a Registered Nurse or Nurse Practitioner, and 
3.4.2.2 
the injury falls within their scope for ACC claims lodgement, and 
3.4.2.3 
the injury requires nurse level treatment (not just first aid that a 
Client would usually not seek treatment for) 
they can lodge the claim and treat the injury on this occasion 
under Cost of Treatment Regulations and still invoice under the 
Nursing Services contract for future treatment. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 9 of 34 
3.5 
In the cases described in clause 3.4.2 the Supplier must ensure the Client’s General 
Practice Team is aware of the new injury if the Client is enrolled with a general 
practice. 
Referral 
3.6 
Clients can only access these Services if they have been referred by one of the 
following: 
3.6.1. 
A medical practitioner, Nurse Practitioner, or a Registered Nurse under the 
supervision of a medical practitioner or Nurse Practitioner. 
3.6.2. 
Community-Based Health Service Provider. 
3.6.3. 
ACC Claims Management staff. 
3.6.4. 
Self-referral where a Client lives in a rural nursing services area either 
permanently or temporarily (e.g. tourist or visitor), as defined in clause 6.9. 
3.6.5. 
Self-referral where there are barriers to accessing a General Practice Team 
(e.g. the client is unable to enrol with a general practice). 
3.7 
Clients must be given a choice of Supplier for provision of Nursing Services post 
discharge from a Health New Zealand - Te Whatu Ora (Health NZ) hospital. The 
options given to the Client may include Health NZ along with the other approved 
Suppliers in the region. In this case, Health NZ needs to be able to provide evidence 
that Clients were given a choice of Supplier.  If the Supplier is Health NZ, ACC may 
request confirmation of Client choice. 
3.8 
When the Supplier receives the referral, they will ensure that the details listed below 
are recorded before commencing this Service: 
3.8.1. 
Client’s name, gender, date of birth and contact details; 
3.8.2. 
ACC claim number; 
3.8.3. 
NHI number; 
3.8.4. 
Purpose of the referral; 
3.8.5. 
Injury condition and diagnosis code(s); 
3.8.6. 
Injury details; 
3.8.7. 
Clinical record relating to the injury outlining treatment provided to date; 
and 
3.8.8. 
Relevant non-injury details which may impact on the management of the 
covered injury. 
3.8.9. 
If the referral contains inadequate information, the Supplier will request 
further details from the referrer or from ACC prior to accepting the referral 
and commencing the Services. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 10 of 34 
3.9 
The Supplier will accept all referrals except where: 
3.9.1. 
The Supplier assesses that the Client does not meet the eligibility criteria; 
or 
3.9.2. 
There is a conflict of interest in accepting the referral; or 
3.9.3. 
The Supplier does not have sufficient capacity at that time. 
3.10 The Supplier will adhere to the following timeframes: 
Table 3 - Service Timeframes 
Requirement 
Standard Timeframe 
Urgent Timeframes 
Accept or decline a referral 
Within one Business day of 
receiving the referral 
By close of Business on the 
date of receipt of a referral 
Complete the Initial Assessment & 
Commence Treatment 
Within two Business days 
of receiving the referral 
Within one Business day of 
receiving the referral 
Submit 
the 
ACC179, 
Initial 
Assessment 
and 
relevant 
documents where an Extended 
Nursing package is required to meet 
the Client’s needs 
Within three Business days 
of identifying the need 
N/A 
Submit the ACC179 and other 
relevant 
documents 
for 
Subsequent Injury or transfer from 
another Supplier 
Within five Business days of 
identifying the change in 
circumstances 
N/A 
4. 
SPECIFIED AREA (PART A, CLAUSE 2) 
4.1 
The Service will be provided by the Supplier for Clients in the geographical areas as 
specified in Part A, clause 2. 
4.2 
The Service can be provided to a Client in their home, at a clinic, or in another 
appropriate community location (e.g. school or Client workplace). 
4.3 
The Supplier will provide the service in the Client’s preferred service location (clinic 
or Client’s home) – provided the preferred service location is clinically safe for the 
Client and there are no significant Health and Safety concerns for the treating nurse. 
4.4 
Where the reason for referral is the complexity of the injury and not the Client’s ability 
to attend the General Practice Team and there are no other access issues (e.g. 
availability of transport), the Supplier can choose to deliver services in an outpatient 
clinic or appropriate community location within reasonable travel distance and time 
for the Client. 
4.5 
The Supplier may use telephone or other technology-based monitoring of Clients’ 
recovery as long as these are appropriate.  However, only in-person consultations 
count towards the numbers of visits in a package and can be invoiced for under 
Extended Nursing or Ongoing Nursing. Telehealth may be used for delivery of 
Comprehensive Nursing Assessments as described in clause 6.5. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 11 of 34 
4.6 
The service delivery methods must be aligned with the Initial Assessment and 
Treatment Plan as agreed with the Client. 
5. 
SERVICE REQUIREMENTS 
5.1 
This Service Schedule (Part B) is to be read in conjunction with the Nursing Services 
operational guidelines available on ACC’s website (as updated from time to time). 
Type of Services 
5.2 
This Service Schedule includes the following Services: 
5.2.1 
Short Term Nursing Package of Care; 
5.2.2 
Medium Term Nursing Package of Care; 
5.2.3 
Long Term Nursing Package of Care; 
5.2.4 
Extended Nursing; 
5.2.5 
Ongoing Nursing;  
5.2.6 
Treatment of Subsequent Injury; 
5.2.7 
Oversight Consultation by a Designated Provider; 
5.2.8 
Consumables; 
5.2.9 
Comprehensive Nursing Assessment. 
Assessment 
5.3 
The Supplier will identify the most appropriate service level based on the Initial 
Assessment and Treatment Plan.  Unless prior ACC approval has been obtained, only 
one package of care can be invoiced per claim number. 
5.4 
The treatment timeframes and number of in-person consultations determine the 
appropriate package of care and use of Extended Nursing consultations. The Supplier 
must: 
5.4.1 
Ensure the package of care begins on the date of the initial assessment, 
which must be an in-person consultation. 
5.4.2 
Assess and determine the timeframe needed for treatment. 
5.4.3 
Assess and determine the number of expected in-person consultations. 
5.4.4 
Ensure the number of in-person visits meet the minimum consultations 
within the identified package of care.  In the event that the minimum 
consultations are not required, the Supplier will invoice under a shorter 
package of care. 
5.4.5 
Ensure they advise ACC immediately where the Client requires Extended 
Nursing. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 12 of 34 
Documentation and Clinical Records 
5.5 
The Supplier will maintain detailed clinical records. Clinical records will comply with 
the standards detailed on the ACC website, the standards set by the Nursing Council 
of New Zealand and any applicable legislation. 
5.6 
The Supplier must ensure: 
5.6.1 
Initial Assessments and treatment plans are completed by a Registered 
Nurse or Nurse Practitioner. 
5.6.2 
The Initial Assessment and Treatment Plan includes all the required 
information as set out in the template provided by ACC and as described in 
clause 5.7. 
5.6.3 
The Initial Assessment and Treatment Plan must contain a level of 
information that provides evidence based rationale for treatment (e.g. in 
accordance with TIME wound assessment tool or NZ Wound Care Society 
venous ulcer assessment and management guidelines); and 
5.6.4 
Make these available to ACC on request. 
5.7 
The Supplier’s Initial Assessment and Treatment Plan must include: 
5.7.1 
the reason for referral for Services; 
5.7.2 
identification of service level (including likely number and frequency of 
consultations); 
5.7.3 
in case of wound management, a comprehensive wound assessment for all 
wounds; 
5.7.4 
the accident and diagnosis details; 
5.7.5 
treatments to date; 
5.7.6 
health status; 
5.7.7 
co-morbidities; 
5.7.8 
medications and past history that may be relevant to the covered injury; 
5.7.9 
any acknowledged underlying health factors that may impact on the 
recovery of the Client from the covered injury; and 
5.7.10 
a risk assessment and prevention plan for falls, pressure injuries, 
healthcare acquired infections, medication adverse events and any other 
risk that may arise from provision of the Service. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 13 of 34 
Services 
5.8 
Short Term Nursing Package 
5.8.1 
Is for eligible Clients who require in-person consultations for 13 or fewer 
calendar days. 
5.8.2 
Does not require prior ACC approval. 
5.8.3 
Requires the Supplier to complete clinical records as detailed in clause 5.5 
and make them available at ACC’s request. 
5.8.4 
Allows a maximum of 25 in-person consultations. 
5.9 
Medium Term Nursing Package 
5.9.1 
Is for eligible Clients who: 
5.9.1.1 
Require in-person consultations for a period of 14 calendar days 
to 42 calendar days; and 
5.9.1.2 
Require a minimum of six in-person consultations. The Supplier 
cannot invoice for this package of care if fewer than six in-
person consultations were completed.  In this case the Supplier 
will invoice under the Short Term Nursing Package. 
5.9.2 
Allows a maximum of 25 in-person consultations. 
5.9.3 
Does not require prior ACC approval. 
5.9.4 
Requires the Supplier to complete clinical records as detailed in clause 5.5 
and make them available at ACC’s request. 
5.10 Long Term Nursing Package 
5.10.1 
Is for eligible Clients who: 
5.10.1.1 
Require in-person consultations for a period of 43 calendar days 
to 105 calendar days; and 
5.10.1.2 
Require a minimum of 12 in-person consultations. The Supplier 
cannot invoice for this package of care if fewer than 12 in-person 
consultations were completed.  In this case the Supplier will 
invoice under the appropriate shorter package. 
5.10.2 
Allows a maximum of 25 in-person consultations. 
5.10.3 
Does not require prior ACC approval. 
5.10.4 
Requires the Supplier to complete clinical records as detailed in clause 5.5 
and make them available at ACC’s request. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 14 of 34 
5.11 Extended Nursing 
5.11.1 
Is for eligible Clients who require further Nursing Services once 25 in-
person consultations have been completed or the Client has received 
Nursing Services for more than 105 days, or as otherwise approved by ACC 
for Clients whose treatment needs do not fit the packages of care. 
5.11.2 
The Supplier must seek ACC’s prior approval before undertaking Extended 
Nursing services. The Supplier must submit the following: 
5.11.2.1 
the clinical records (Initial Assessment and Treatment Plan, and 
notes) with an ACC179 Nursing Services Notification Form. 
5.11.2.2 
The Supplier must indicate the number of treatments and the 
period needed to meet the Client’s needs. 
5.11.3 
While reviewing the request for Extended Nursing services, ACC may 
require a Comprehensive Nursing Assessment to support its decision 
making. 
5.11.4 
On completion of 25 in-person consultations, the Supplier may invoice for 
the appropriate package of care, over and above the 25 consultations 
provided.  From the 26th in-person consultation or the 106th day of service 
delivery (which is deemed to be the first day of Extended Nursing 
treatment), the Supplier may invoice ACC under Extended Nursing (NS04). 
5.11.5 
The Supplier must only deliver up to the ACC approved number of 
consultations. Not all of the pre-approved consultations may be required 
in each case. The Supplier must only invoice for the number of 
consultations delivered. 
5.11.6 
If the Client needs further Nursing Services after the first approved number 
of treatments, the Supplier must submit a further request for Extended 
Nursing for approval. The Supplier will submit all additional clinical records 
with an ACC179 Nursing Services Notification Form.  The Supplier must 
indicate both the number of treatments required and the period for which 
the Client requires the Services to meet their injury related need. 
5.11.7 
Where ACC has approved Extended Nursing for a Client who has not been 
treated under a package of care, the Supplier cannot invoice for a package 
of care but will invoice on a ‘per consultation’ basis (NS04) only. 
5.11.8 
Where ACC declines the request for an Extended Nursing Package, the 
Supplier will invoice for a Short, Medium or Long Term Nursing Package in 
accordance with clauses 5.8, 5.9 and 5.10. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 15 of 34 
5.12 Ongoing Nursing 
5.12.1 
This Service is for Clients who have ongoing, potentially permanent, nursing 
needs. Clients accessing this service have usually suffered a serious injury, 
but other Clients with ongoing nursing needs are also eligible for Ongoing 
Nursing. 
5.12.2 
Requires an ACC referral however the Supplier can make a 
recommendation to ACC if they have identified a Client with a permanent 
nursing need. 
5.12.3 
The Supplier will notify ACC that the referral has been accepted, or that 
more information is required, within one working day of receipt of the 
referral. 
5.12.4 
Upon initial referral, the Supplier will complete an Initial Assessment and 
Treatment Plan. Thereafter, a reviewed assessment and treatment plan will 
be completed in line with the Client’s needs, or at ACC’s request, at least 
annually. 
5.12.5 
Consumables for this Service must be provided by ACC’s consumable 
supplier and delivered to the Client’s home. 
5.12.6 
Clinical records are to be completed and available to ACC on request. 
5.12.7 
The Supplier will be entitled to invoice for travel time and distance as 
described in clause 15 of this Service Schedule for Ongoing Nursing 
Services. The Supplier cannot charge for travel included in the packages of 
care or Extended Nursing Services. 
5.12.8 
Where a Client is receiving Ongoing Nursing and has a Consequential Injury 
(e.g. pressure injuries), the need for Nursing Services for the Consequential 
Injury will be assessed by the Supplier and treatment needs identified (refer 
to operational guidelines). 
5.12.9 
The Supplier is entitled to charge for Ongoing Nursing and an additional 
Service on the same day in accordance with clauses 5.8 to 5.11 inclusive. 
6. 
ASSOCIATED NURSING SERVICES 
6.1 
Treatment of Subsequent Injury 
6.1.1 
If a Client who is currently receiving Nursing Services sustains a new injury 
requiring Nursing Services: 
6.1.1.1 
The Supplier will complete the ACC179 with an updated 
treatment plan incorporating the Subsequent Injury and submit 
to ACC. 
6.1.1.2 
The Nursing Services provider will lodge a new ACC45 claim for 
the Subsequent Injury as described in clause 3.4.2. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 16 of 34 
6.1.1.3 
The Supplier can invoice for a Subsequent Injury on the same 
visit as a visit to treat the original covered injury. The Supplier will 
invoice ACC for the Subsequent Injury (NS06) detailing the 
second ACC claim number. 
6.1.1.4 
An original covered injury may resolve while the Subsequent 
Injury still requires ongoing treatment. When the Subsequent 
Injury becomes the only injury being treated, the Client's needs 
will be reassessed and the appropriate package identified at 
that time. 
6.1.1.5 
Where the Client receives Subsequent Injury treatment for 
multiple claims at the same time, the injury that they have 
received Subsequent injury treatment for longest transfers into 
a package of care. 
6.1.2 
If the Client needs more than 50 Subsequent Injury (NS06) treatments 
under the same claim, the Supplier must submit a request to ACC for 
approval of further treatments. The Supplier will submit all clinical records 
with an ACC179 Nursing Services Notification Form. 
6.1.3 
The Supplier must indicate both the number of NS06 treatments required 
and the period for which the Client requires the Services to meet their injury 
related need. ACC may require a Comprehensive Nursing Assessment to 
support its decision making. 
6.2 
Oversight Consultation by a Designated Provider 
6.2.1 
An Oversight Consultation by a Designated Provider is carried out by the 
treating Supplier’s Designated Provider in the Client’s home, in the 
presence of the treating nurse and the Client, with the intention that the 
Designated Provider will provide the treating nurse with additional support 
in the management of injuries which are lacking progress in recovery. 
6.2.2 
The first Oversight Consultation does not require ACC prior approval. The 
second and subsequent Oversight Consultations will require prior approval 
from ACC. The Supplier may request prior approval from ACC via email or 
phone. 
6.2.3 
The Designated Provider will usually be an employee or consultant of the 
treating Supplier. In exceptional circumstances, Oversight Consultations 
can be completed by another Supplier’s Designated Provider on the 
treating Supplier’s behalf. In this case the treating Supplier will invoice for 
the Oversight Consultation and reimbursement to the other Supplier will be 
arranged between the two Suppliers. The treating Supplier will be 
responsible for providing the report outlined in 6.2.4 to ACC. 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 17 of 34 
6.2.4 
The Supplier will, within three Business days of the Oversight Consultation 
being completed, send the Designated Provider’s clinical records to ACC. 
These notes will cover the following: 
6.2.4.1 
Reason why the Oversight Consultation was required; 
6.2.4.2 
Current status of the Client’s injury and recovery; 
6.2.4.3 
Changes to the treatment plan following the Oversight 
Consultation and rationale for the changes or rationale why the 
treatment plan was not changed. 
6.2.5 
At no extra cost to ACC, if required, the Supplier will answer specific 
questions around the treatment, progress and recovery timeframe. 
6.2.6 
The Supplier can invoice for this consultation over and above the package 
of care or other service the Client is being treated under. 
6.2.7 
The Supplier will be entitled to invoice for travel time and distance as 
provided in Part A, Table 1 – Service Items and Prices for the Designated 
Provider 
(except 
where 
the 
Designated 
Provider 
shares 
travel 
arrangements with the treating nurse). 
6.3 
Medical Consumables 
6.3.1 
Consumables are medical items (that are not pharmaceuticals) which are 
required for the treatment of an injury. 
6.3.2 
Low Cost Consumables are built into prices for packages of care, Extended 
Nursing and Subsequent Injury treatment. ACC will not be charged any 
additional fee for the provision of Low Cost Consumables in combination 
with these services. 
6.3.3 
ACC will deliver High Cost Consumables directly to the Client or will 
reimburse the Supplier for High Cost Consumables. 
6.3.4 
Consumables will be considered High Cost Consumables when and if: 
6.3.4.1 
The Supplier uses the type and quantity of Consumables which 
are necessary and appropriate for the covered injury and are 
reflective of clinical best practice. 
6.3.4.2 
The Supplier’s Designated Provider has reviewed the treatment 
plan and has either provided rationale, or has supported the 
treating nurse’s rationale, for the Consumables selection. 
6.3.4.3 
The total cost of Consumables is more than $25.00 (excluding 
GST) per consultation, with each Unit having a minimum cost of 
$10.00 (excluding GST). 
6.3.4.4 
The invoice details the date of consultation, product/s, Units 
and actual cost. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 18 of 34 
6.3.5 
Where the Supplier elects to have the High Cost Consumables delivered 
directly to the Client via ACC’s Consumables Supplier, an order will be 
placed using the Consumables Supplier’s online ordering system or an 
ACC178 Consumables Order Form (refer to ACC website) will be submitted 
to ACC. 
6.3.6 
High Cost Consumables cannot be bulk ordered for a period longer than 1 
month, but can be ordered on a recurring order which will be delivered 
monthly. 
6.3.7 
Consumables for Ongoing Nursing (NS05) must be provided by ACC’s 
Consumables Supplier and delivered to the Client’s home. 
6.4 
Comprehensive Nursing Assessment 
6.4.1 
A Comprehensive Nursing Assessment is an independent and objective 
clinical 
assessment 
identifying 
the 
Client’s 
specific 
treatment, 
rehabilitation and injury prevention needs and identifying options to 
address the injuries. 
6.4.2 
An annual Comprehensive Nursing Assessment will be required for Clients 
who have received continuous Nursing Services for 12 months or longer. 
6.4.3 
ACC will send a referral to a Secondary Supplier when a Comprehensive 
Nursing Assessment is required.  A Comprehensive Nursing Assessment 
may be used to: 
6.4.3.1 
inform ACC’s decisions on requests for Extended Nursing; or 
6.4.3.2 
determine the most appropriate clinical pathway to manage the 
injury that is not responding to the current treatment plan within 
expected timeframes; or 
6.4.3.3 
support the development of the treatment plan where a Client 
has multiple, complex injuries; or 
6.4.3.4 
provide recommendations for specialist reviews. 
6.4.4 
Comprehensive Nursing Assessments are to be completed by a Designated 
Provider of the Secondary Supplier. 
6.4.5 
The Supplier will not be able to complete a Comprehensive Nursing 
Assessment with a Client they are currently treating. ACC will support the 
original treating nurse attending the consultation when the Secondary 
Supplier’s Designated Provider undertakes a Comprehensive Nursing 
Assessment. 
6.4.6 
The Supplier will return any referral for a Comprehensive Nursing 
Assessment to ACC if it contains inadequate information, before accepting 
the referral. 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 19 of 34 
6.4.7 
The following information must be included in a Comprehensive Nursing 
Assessment Report: 
6.4.7.1 
Details of the Client’s accident and diagnosis. 
6.4.7.2 
The progress made to date including the types and durations of 
assessments and treatments carried out to date. 
6.4.7.3 
Current health status. 
6.4.7.4 
Co-morbidities and past history that may be relevant to the 
treatment of the covered injury (e.g. history of slow healing 
wounds). 
6.4.7.5 
Medications. 
6.4.7.6 
Natural supports and strengths. 
6.4.7.7 
Details of the ongoing causation of the presenting condition and 
relevance to the covered injury. 
6.4.7.8 
Recommendations for ongoing management/treatment and any 
further investigations required. 
6.4.7.9 
Comprehensive wound assessment for all wounds. 
6.4.8 
The Service ends when the Comprehensive Nursing Assessment Report 
has been submitted to ACC and ACC has not requested any further 
information. 
6.4.9 
The Supplier will be entitled to invoice for travel time and distance as 
provided in Table 1, Service Items and Prices, (except if the service is 
delivered via Telehealth). 
6.5 
Comprehensive Nursing Assessments can be provided via Telehealth, where 
clinically appropriate. Services delivered by Telehealth must: 
6.5.1 
meet the requirements of the ACC Telehealth Guide; 
6.5.2 
have Client or authorised representative consent (recorded in the clinical 
notes), and with the option of an in-person meeting if the Client prefers; 
6.5.3 
be preceded by an initial risk assessment to ensure Client safety; 
6.5.4 
meet the same required standards of care provided through an in-person 
consultation; 
6.5.5 
have clinical records that meet ACC and professional body requirements; 
6.5.6 
meet the requirements outlined in the standards/guidelines of the Nursing 
Council of New Zealand; If there is a difference between what the regulatory 
body states and what is stated in this Contract, then the Contract 
conditions take precedence; and 

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 20 of 34 
6.5.7 
be provided to a Client residing in New Zealand by a Provider residing in 
New Zealand at the time of the service provision. 
6.6 
The Supplier will adhere to the following timeframes: 
Table 4 - Comprehensive Nursing Assessment Service Timeframes 
Requirement 
Standard Timeframe 
Urgent Timeframes 
Accept or decline a referral 
Within one Business day of receiving 
the referral 
By close of Business on 
the date of receipt of a 
referral 
Contact the Client to explain 
the 
assessment 
process, 
answer any Client questions, 
confirm whether the Client 
requires a support person 
and arrange a suitable time 
and venue to undertake the 
assessment 
Within two Business days of receiving 
the referral 
By close of Business on 
the date of receipt of a 
referral 
Complete 
the 
Comprehensive 
Nursing 
Assessment 
Within 
seven 
Business 
days 
of 
receiving the referral 
Within three working days 
of receiving the referral 
Submit the Comprehensive 
Nursing Assessment report to 
ACC 
Within ten Business days of receiving 
the referral 
Within five working days 
of receiving the referral 
Submit 
a 
revised 
Comprehensive 
Nursing 
Assessment, if the first report 
does not meet the required 
standard 
Within 
five 
Business 
days 
of 
notification 
by 
ACC 
that 
the 
Comprehensive Nursing Assessment 
report does not meet the required 
standard 
Within 
48 
hours 
of 
notification by ACC that 
the 
Comprehensive 
Nursing 
Assessment 
report does not meet the 
required standard 
 
6.7 
Consequential Injury 
6.7.1 
Where a Client develops a Consequential Injury requiring nursing 
treatment, the Supplier must undertake the following: 
6.7.1.1 
Identify the need for Nursing Services in an Initial Assessment 
and Treatment Plan; 
6.7.1.2 
Complete an ACC179 identifying the package of care required 
and submit to ACC for approval if required (e.g. if the client has 
already had a package or multiple packages of care under the 
same claim number); 
6.7.1.3 
Complete a new ACC45 claim for the Consequential Injury. 
6.7.2 
In the event of a Consequential Injury is not healing in an expected 
timeframe, the Supplier will request approval for an Oversight Consultation 
by their Designated Provider (or conduct an Oversight Consultation without 
prior approval if it is the first Oversight consultation on the claim). 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 21 of 34 
6.7.3 
ACC may request a Comprehensive Nursing Assessment be undertaken. 
6.7.4 
If the Consequential Injury is a pressure injury, it must be assessed and 
classified using a validating tool in line with best practice1. 
6.7.5 
Where a Client is receiving Ongoing Nursing Services, Consequential Injury, 
can be delivered concurrently. 
6.8 
Negative Pressure Wound Therapy (NPWT) 
6.8.1 
If NPWT is recommended for the Client by a specialist, GP, Nursing Services 
Designated Provider or Nurse Practitioner, the Supplier will: 
6.8.1.1 
Complete a treatment plan; and 
6.8.1.2 
Submit an ACC178 Consumables Order form to ACC, including 
the rationale for this treatment and the treatment plan. 
6.8.2 
The Supplier will comply with ACC’s operational guidelines for Negative 
Pressure Wound Therapy available on ACC’s website (as updated from 
time to time). 
6.9 
Rural Nursing Services 
6.9.1 
Rural Nursing Services are defined by the location of the treating nurse, that 
is, where the Rural Nurse’s base is at least 50 km or 30 minute drive from 
the nearest medical centre which has a doctor in regular attendance (e.g. 
Public Hospital Accident & Emergency department or GP clinic). 
6.10 Health New Zealand - Te Whatu Ora Services 
6.10.1 
Health New Zealand - Te Whatu Ora may not invoice for Services under this 
Service Schedule in the following situations: 
6.10.1.1 
The nurse treatment/procedure is timed to support a medical 
specialist appointment; or 
6.10.1.2 
Where the follow up occurs in a Nurse clinic and is referred from 
the Emergency Department or an outpatient clinic for routine 
procedures that could be managed by the General Practice 
Team (i.e. simple wounds, suture removal, cast changes). In this 
case, Health New Zealand - Te Whatu Ora may invoice under 
Cost of Treatment Regulations for the nurse treatment. 
 
1 Please refer to the Guiding Principles for Pressure Injury Prevention and Management in New Zealand available on 
www.acc.co.nz 

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 22 of 34 
7. 
SERVICE SPECIFIC QUALITY REQUIREMENTS 
7.1 
ACC is committed to purchasing Nursing Services from Suppliers who can 
demonstrate that they engage in continuous monitoring, evaluation and learning for 
system and service quality and safety improvement and deliver quality services. 
7.2 
The Supplier must ensure: 
7.2.1 
All Initial Assessments and Treatment Plans are undertaken by a Registered 
Nurse or Nurse Practitioner. 
7.2.2 
Services are delivered by a Nurse Practitioner, Registered Nurse or Enrolled 
Nurse (working within their scope of practice), as designated on their 
Annual Practising Certificate, with the degree of professional skill, care and 
diligence expected of an appropriately qualified person experienced in 
providing the same or similar services. 
7.2.3 
All Nursing Service Providers will have a current Annual Practising 
Certificate issued by the Nursing Council of New Zealand (or any 
subsequent registration authority created under the Health Practitioners 
Competence Assurance Act 2003). 
7.2.4 
The Annual Practising Certificate will have no restrictions or conditions that 
would negatively impact on their ability to provide the prescribed care, 
enabling the Service Provider to meet all the quality requirements of this 
Service Schedule. 
7.3 
The Supplier (with the Nursing Service Provider) will ensure all Clients receiving the 
Services are managed in a way which maximises healing and recovery.  This will 
include: 
7.3.1 
Accurate assessment of injuries and co-existing factors which may impact 
on recovery. 
7.3.2 
Appropriate and effective treatment and evaluation. 
7.3.3 
Appropriate education about caring for the injury. 
7.3.4 
Appropriate 
injury 
prevention 
advice 
to 
minimise 
re-injury 
or 
complications. 
7.3.5 
Clinical records which comply with the standards set out on ACC’s website 
and the standards set by the Nursing Council of New Zealand. 
7.4 
The Supplier will hold auditable records of the professional development activities 
undertaken by their Service Providers. 
Designated Provider 
7.5 
The Supplier must have at least one Designated Provider to ensure treating nurses 
have access to Designated Provider Support during all hours of operation of the 
service. 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 23 of 34 
7.6 
Designated Provider(s) services must be provided by a Registered Nurse or Nurse 
Practitioner whom the Supplier recognises as: 
7.6.1 
having the skill and ability to complete Comprehensive Nursing 
Assessments, Oversight Consultations and make decisions about high-
cost Consumables in accordance with this Service Schedule, without 
requiring prior approval from ACC. 
7.6.2 
The Designated Provider also has a role in ensuring clinical quality, 
providing oversight and supporting the nurses delivering nursing services. 
7.7 
The Supplier will ensure that, in addition to the above, Designated Providers meet the 
following criteria: 
7.7.1 
Has 
a 
current 
Annual 
Practising 
Certificate 
with 
no 
known 
conditions/restrictions on their practice and is not undergoing any formal 
or informal competency review/investigation; 
7.7.2 
Has demonstrated post graduate experience of not less than three years 
full time work in the assessment and treatment of injury related conditions; 
7.7.3 
Has demonstrated post graduate experience working with people in their 
own homes for no less than three years full time work; 
7.7.4 
Provides clinical assessment and treatment services to Clients as a regular 
component of their role; 
7.7.5 
Is readily accessible to the nursing staff who are treating Clients under this 
contract. In this regard, accessibility may be in the form of clinical 
governance, assessment, treatment or supervision; 
7.7.6 
Has or is undertaking post graduate education at NZQF Level 8 (minimum 
post graduate certificate) in relevant nursing specialties including but not 
limited 
to 
Advanced 
Pathophysiology, 
Advanced 
Pharmacology, 
Professional Nursing Practice, Nursing People with Long Term Conditions, 
Wound Management, Pain Management, Evidence-Based Practice, 
Primary Health Care Nursing, Advanced Rural Nursing and Health 
Promotion; 
7.7.7 
Participates in annual professional development directly related to their 
sphere of practice (e.g. wound care / aged care / nutrition / infection 
control); and 
7.7.8 
Maintains membership with a relevant professional organisation. 
8. 
SERVICE EXIT 
8.1 
This Service is complete for a Client when: 
8.1.1 
The Client no longer meets the eligibility criteria for the Service (see clauses 
3.1 to 3.5); or 

--- PAGE 24 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 24 of 34 
8.1.2 
The Client has recovered from the injury; or 
8.1.3 
The Client no longer wishes to receive the Service. 
9. 
EXCLUSIONS 
9.1 
Clients will not be eligible for the Service if: 
9.1.1 
Their needs can be reasonably met by the Client’s General Practice Team 
and they have the mobility and supports to access that service; 
9.1.2 
The treatment is not related, or no longer related, to the original covered 
injury; 
9.1.3 
They are admitted to hospital as an inpatient, for the duration of their 
admission. 
Overlapping Services 
9.2 
When the Supplier receives a referral, the Supplier will check whether the Client is or 
may be receiving other ACC funded services that overlap with the Services. 
If: 
9.2.1 
The Client is receiving other ACC funded services that overlap with the 
Services; 
Or 
9.2.2 
The Supplier is not able to confirm whether the Client is receiving other ACC 
funded services that overlap with the Services, 
Then the Supplier must: 
9.2.3 
Seek ACC’s prior approval for the Services by submitting an ACC179; and 
9.2.4 
Seek the Client’s informed consent for any Services that may affect the 
Client’s eligibility for other ACC funded services that overlap with the 
Services. 
9.3 
The Supplier must ensure it does not undertake any “Double Billing”. If the Supplier 
does undertake Double Billing, the Supplier: 
9.3.1 
Is liable to repay ACC for any relevant amount overpaid by ACC; and 
9.3.2 
Must take all reasonable steps to prevent any future Double Billing. 
9.4 
The Supplier must not deliberately seek to transfer a Client receiving the Services or 
other ACC funded services from another supplier to the Supplier. This does not apply 
where a Client has independently sought to transfer to, or seek a second opinion 
from, the Supplier. 

--- PAGE 25 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 25 of 34 
10. 
LINKAGES 
10.1 In order to ensure that a co-ordinated Service is delivered to the Client, the Supplier 
must actively engage and maintain linkages with all concurrent treatment, 
rehabilitation and prevention services provided to the Client. 
10.2 The Supplier will maintain effective relationships and linkages with the Client’s 
General Practice Team and ACC funded community based services, for example, 
Home and Community Support Services and other agencies where a Client is already 
receiving services (such as Ministry of Health Disability Services or Health New 
Zealand) and the covered injury creates a need for additional support. 
10.3 Where a Client is transferring to an alternative location or Supplier, the original 
Supplier will provide a copy of the Client’s clinical notes to the Client with verbal 
instructions for these clinical notes to be presented to the Secondary Supplier. 
10.4 The Supplier will ensure that linkages are maintained with other services to ensure a 
smooth transition between suppliers, related services and concurrent services are 
appropriately co-ordinated to achieve required outcomes and reduce disruption to 
the Client and their whānau/family. The Supplier will ensure responsibilities are 
clearly documented and agreed when multiple agencies are involved in a Client’s 
care. 
11. 
PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS 
11.1 Between 1 March 2025 and 28 February 2026, ACC will develop a range of 
Performance Measures in consultation with contracted Suppliers. 
11.2 The agreed Performance Measures will be implemented by way of variation, following 
consultation with contracted Suppliers. 
12. 
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS 
12.1 The Supplier will ensure that any reports required by ACC will be submitted 
electronically and using agreed formats, templates or online tools, where these are 
available. 
12.2 The Supplier will demonstrate, via documented evidence, that they are collecting 
data on the quality of the Services they are delivering and are using this information 
to inform a continuous quality improvement process.  This will be made available to 
ACC on request. 
12.3 The Supplier will, on request, supply to ACC additional information or reports on the 
Services provided.  Any such request will be reasonable and the Supplier will provide 
the information to ACC within 20 Business days of the request being received. 

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 26 of 34 
13. 
OPERATIONAL CONTACT 
13.1 During the Term of this Service Schedule, the Supplier will nominate a person (as 
specified in clause 5 of the Quick Reference Information in Part A of this Service 
Schedule) to be the main contact for ACC who will: 
13.1.1 
Have primary responsibility for relationships with ACC and the operation of 
this Service on a day to day basis; 
13.1.2 
Be pro-active in informing ACC of issues with provision of Services as 
outlined; 
13.1.3 
Ensure that the Service is operated in accordance with this Service 
Schedule; 
13.1.4 
Represent the Supplier in discussions on performance; and 
13.1.5 
Ensure that ACC is advised promptly when the main contact person’s 
contact details change. 
14. 
PAYMENT AND INVOICING 
14.1 Service prices are defined for this Service in Table 1 - Service Items and Prices. 
14.2 ACC agrees to pay the prices set out in Table 1 - Service Items and Prices in 
accordance with clause 10 of the Standard Terms and Conditions. 
Repayment to ACC 
14.3 If ACC overpays any amount to the Supplier under or in relation to this Contract, the 
Supplier must: 
14.3.1 
Credit the overpayment on its next invoice to ACC; or 
14.3.2 
refund the overpayment within 10 Business days of becoming aware of, or 
being notified by ACC about the overpayment. 
Deduction of set-off 
14.4 ACC may deduct from or set-off any amount the Supplier owes to ACC under this 
Contract against any amount or other payment that is or may become owing by ACC 
to the Supplier under this Contract or any other agreement. 
15. 
PROVIDER TRAVEL 
15.1 ACC agree to contribute towards a Service Provider’s Travel expenses if: 
15.1.1 
Services are provided for Ongoing Nursing treatment, Oversight 
Consultation with Designated Provider or Comprehensive Nursing 
Assessment. For the avoidance of doubt, ACC will not pay for travel 
expenses for any other Services. 

--- PAGE 27 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 27 of 34 
15.1.2 
Travel expenses are in accordance with ACC’s Travel Policy for Providers 
(available on ACC’s website). 
15.1.3 
The travel expenses payable for each of Time Travel and Travel Distance are 
as specified in Part A: Table 1 of this Service Schedule. 
15.2 The Supplier must ensure: 
15.2.1 
All Services Providers comply with ACC’s Travel Policy. 
15.2.2 
Travel expenses are not invoiced separately for Short Term Nursing 
Packages, Medium Term Nursing Packages, Long Term Nursing Packages, 
Extended Nursing and Treatment of Subsequent Injury. 
15.2.3 
Travel expenses for an Oversight Consultation by a Designated Provider can 
only be invoiced if the Designated Provider does not share travel 
arrangements with the treating nurse. 
15.3 Air Travel 
15.3.1 
Air travel is payable by ACC when: 
15.3.1.1 
ACC has requested air travel to an outlying area that is not the 
Service Provider’s usual area of residence or practice to deliver 
Services; 
15.3.1.2 
Air travel is necessary for the provision of Services to ACC 
Client(s); and 
15.3.1.3 
The Service Provider has received ACC’s written approval prior 
to any air travel. 
15.3.2 
ACC will only pay for actual and reasonable costs of air travel. The Supplier 
must retain receipts of all Air Travel and provide copies when requested by 
ACC. 
15.4 Other Travel 
15.4.1 
For the purposes of this clause 15.4, ‘Other Travel’ means travel by ferry, 
taxi, rental car or public transport. 
15.4.2 
Other Travel is payable by ACC when: 
15.4.2.1 
ACC has requested Other Travel to an outlying area that is not 
the Service Provider’s usual area of residence or practice to 
deliver Services; 
15.4.2.2 
Other Travel is necessary for the provision Services to ACC 
Client(s); and 
15.4.2.3 
the Service Provider has received ACC’s written approval prior 
to travel. 

--- PAGE 28 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 28 of 34 
15.4.3 
ACC will only pay for actual and reasonable costs of all Other Travel (NST6). 
The Supplier must retain receipts of all Other Travel and provide copies 
when requested by ACC. 
15.5 Accommodation costs 
15.5.1 
Accommodation is only payable for Comprehensive Nursing Assessments 
not completed via Telehealth. 
15.5.2 
ACC will only pay for actual and reasonable accommodation costs if ACC 
has given prior approval and receipts are provided. 
15.5.3 
ACC will not pay for reimbursement of alcohol, including mini-bar expense. 
16. 
SERVICE QUALITY STANDARDS 
16.1 The Supplier must provide the Services using the appropriate Assessment tools in 
accordance with industry practice. The Supplier will further ensure all Service 
Providers and any other Personnel (including instructed subcontractors and Third-
party providers) involved in the delivery of the Services meet the following 
requirements, as applicable: 
16.1.1 
Non-registered service providers or personnel: 
16.1.1.1 
Have the appropriate qualification and expertise; 
16.1.1.2 
Have regulatory documented supervision, appropriate to their 
level of qualification and competency to ensure that they 
provide support activities safely and effectively; and 
16.1.1.3 
Undertake ongoing training in their area of expertise. 
16.1.2 
All Personnel; 
16.1.2.1 
Consistently provide the highest standard of customer service 
in accordance with industry practice, and 
16.1.2.2 
Undertake induction and development requirements. 
16.2 The Supplier must maintain quality assurance systems and processes in accordance 
with industry practice to identify and monitor competency level, training needs and 
compliance with supervision and training requirements for Service Providers and 
other Personnel that provide any part of the Services. 
16.3 Safety Checks 
16.3.1 
The Supplier must: 
16.3.1.1 
Uphold the safety of ACC Clients by carrying out appropriate 
screening/vetting, including Police vetting, for all authorised 
persons who provide services under this contract; 

--- PAGE 29 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 29 of 34 
16.3.1.2 
Establish and maintain systems, processes and security 
screening practices, for all supplier authorised persons, 
including subcontractors and collaborate with ACC, to uphold 
the safety of Clients; 
16.3.1.3 
Ensure all authorised persons who work with children must 
complete a Children’s Workforce Safety Check to ensure they 
are safety checked to the standard required under the 
Children’s Act 2014 and the Children’s (Requirements for Safety 
Checks of Children’s Workers) Regulations 2015; and 
16.3.1.4 
Immediately notify ACC of any actual, possible or anticipated 
issues that could impact the safety of Clients. 
16.3.2 
If ACC receives any information from any source related to the safety of 
Clients in relation to these Services, ACC may take steps to investigate and 
take appropriate action. If ACC considers on reasonable grounds that the 
safety of a Client or Clients may be impacted, ACC can, at its sole 
discretion, suspend or terminate all or any part of the Services, or this 
contract. 
16.4 Capacity and Capability 
16.4.1 
The Supplier must ensure it has Service Providers and Personnel necessary 
to deliver the Services in accordance with this Service Schedule. The 
Supplier must ensure all personnel required to deliver the Services meet 
the requirements of Part B, clause 15.1, and are available in each of the 
locations identified in Part A, clause 2 (Service Regions). 
16.4.2 
The Supplier will advise ACC immediately if they do not have Service 
Providers available to undertake the Services within any of the locations 
identified in Part A, clause 2. ACC may suspend referrals to the Supplier in 
the affected area until the Supplier notifies ACC in writing of being able to 
deliver the Services in the affected area. 
16.5 Policies, protocols, guidelines and procedures 
16.5.1 
The Supplier must maintain the following: 
16.5.1.1 
Operating Procedures to manage Service Provider induction, 
training, decision making and oversight, quality improvements, 
performance management and risk management in relation to 
the Services. 
16.5.1.2 
Privacy Policy to manage Client Personal Information including 
to meet the requirements of clause 9 of ACC’s Standard Terms 
and Conditions. 

--- PAGE 30 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 30 of 34 
16.5.1.3 
Health and Safety Plan relevant to the Client and environments 
where the Supplier and their Service Providers will be delivering 
the Services. 
16.5.1.4 
Business Continuity Plan to manage service continuity and 
minimise impacts to the Services and Client. 
16.5.1.5 
Service Provider List to document all Service Providers 
including any subcontractors delivering the Services to clients 
under this Contract. 
16.5.2 
A copy of the above listed items must be promptly provided to ACC on 
request or as required. 
17. 
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
Health and Safety Risk Management 
17.1 In addition to the Supplier’s obligations under clause 8.16 of ACC’s Standard Terms 
and Conditions, the Supplier acknowledges and agrees that: 
17.1.1 
The Supplier is responsible for managing the health and safety risks arising 
from performing the Services; and 
17.1.2 
ACC is reliant on the Supplier’s expertise and ability to influence and 
control the performance of the Services to manage the health and safety 
risks. 
17.2 While undertaking the Service, the Supplier must maintain health and safety risk 
management plans relating to the delivery of Services that at a minimum: 
17.2.1 
Identify health and safety risks arising from the Services. 
17.2.2 
Establish controls to eliminate or minimise those health and safety risks so 
far as reasonably practicable. 
17.2.3 
Ensure all workplace fixtures, fittings and plant (as defined in the Health 
and Safety at Work Act 2015) are, so far as reasonably practicable, without 
risk to health and safety. 
17.2.4 
Describe the duties that overlap with other Persons Conducting a Business 
or Undertaking ('PCBUs' as defined by the Health and Safety at Work Act 
2015). 
17.2.5 
Ensure there are arrangements to consult, cooperate and coordinate with 
those other PCBUs in order to manage health and safety risks and events 
(including accidents, harm or near misses), so far as is reasonably 
practicable. 

--- PAGE 31 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 31 of 34 
17.3 Working with other PCBU’s 
17.3.1 
The Supplier must undertake pre-qualification checks in accordance with 
Industry Practice and confirm its Subcontractors have appropriate health 
and safety accreditations and risk management plans in place that protect 
all workers or others who may be put at risk by the Services. 
17.3.2 
The Supplier must review its Subcontractor’s health and safety 
accreditation and plans at appropriate intervals in accordance with Good 
Industry Practice. 
17.4 Systems to report risks and events 
17.4.1 
The Supplier will maintain systems to enable all workers (as defined by the 
Health and Safety at Work Act 2015) and all Service Providers and 
Subcontractors to report health, safety and security events and risks 
relating to the Services to the Supplier. 
17.4.2 
The Supplier must have procedures in place to manage the events and risks 
reported. 
17.5 The Supplier will provide ACC the following, on request: 
17.5.1 
a summary, including follow up actions and outcomes, of any significant 
health and safety risks and events (including accidents, harm or near 
misses) that have been identified by the Supplier, and 
17.5.2 
any follow up actions and outcomes from any items advised to ACC under 
clause 8.16 of ACC’s Standard Terms and Conditions. 
17.6 The Supplier must report on health and safety incidents, events and risks related to 
the Services to ACC via ACC’s online health and safety form. ACC’s online health and 
safety form can be accessed here: Third party health and safety form (acc.co.nz). 
17.7 Supply information about health and safety 
17.7.1 
At any time requested by ACC, the Supplier will promptly and within 10 
Business Days provide information to ACC relating to the Supplier's 
compliance with its health and safety related obligations under this 
Contract. 
18. 
INFORMATION SECURITY 
18.1 The Supplier must: 
18.1.1 
ensure that its Personnel that receive and access ACC Client Personal 
Information from ACC only do so for the purposes of delivering the Services 
and in a manner that complies with the Supplier’s privacy, security and 
confidentiality obligations under this Contract; 

--- PAGE 32 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 32 of 34 
18.1.2 
not transmit, transfer, export or store Personal Information and 
Confidential Information outside of New Zealand and/or Australia; 
18.1.3 
maintain information security systems, procedures and process in 
accordance with Good Industry Practice to protect Client Personal 
Information and Confidential Information against loss or unlawful access, 
use, modification or disclosure; 
18.1.4 
undertake regular security assurance, monitoring and testing of its 
information management systems and promptly remediate any identified 
security vulnerabilities, in accordance with Good Industry Practice; 
18.1.5 
comply with any security information, accreditation and certification 
requirements requested or notified by ACC from time to time; and 
18.1.6 
ensure that its Subcontractors meet all the above requirements before 
providing them any ACC Client Personal Information or Confidential 
Information under this Contract. 
19. 
BROADER OUTCOMES 
19.1 The Supplier will take reasonable steps to achieve and enhance opportunities to 
achieve, broader social, economic and environmental outcomes through the 
Services, including to: 
19.1.1 
Improve cultural equity and outcomes for Māori, Pacific and other ethnic or 
indigenous groups; 
19.1.2 
Perform the Services in a manner that gives appropriate regard to the 
protection of the natural environment, including by looking for 
opportunities to reduce emissions and waste impacts, such as by 
procuring and using low-waste and low emissions good and services where 
reasonably possible; and 
19.1.3 
Comply, and ensure that its subcontractors and Personnel comply, with 
relevant employment standards and laws (including obligations under the 
Employment Relations Act 2000, Minimum Wage Act 1983, Wages 
Protection Act 1983, and the Holidays Act 2003 or equivalent legislation. 
20. 
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS 
Recovery 
Team/Recovery 
Team Member 
The team or team member engaged by ACC to provide case and claim 
management for the Client for the purposes of the AC Act and may also 
include other authorised ACC personnel. 
Community-Based 
Health 
Service 
Provider 
A provider of health services that may be accessed by the Client in the 
community outside of the General Practice Team. For example, community 
pharmacist, paramedic, physiotherapist, rongoā Māori practitioner. 
Consequential Injury 
A Consequential Injury is an injury that substantially arises from the original 
injury (e.g. pressure injuries secondary to tetraplegia). 

--- PAGE 33 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 33 of 34 
Consultation 
A single in-person meeting between the Supplier’s nursing provider and the 
Client to assess the injury, provide advice and/or treatment. 
Consumable 
Consumables are medical items (that are not pharmaceuticals) which are 
required for the treatment of an injury. 
High Cost Consumables are Consumables that cost $10 or more per unit 
and total $25 or more for all Consumables required for one consultation. 
Consumables below those thresholds are Low Cost Consumables. 
Consumable Unit 
A single consumable item i.e. one bandage – not a box of bandages. 
Designated Provider 
Designated Providers are Nurse Practitioners or Registered Nurses whom 
ACC recognises as having the skill and ability to make decisions about 
Consumables under this Service Schedule without requiring prior approval 
from ACC, and they can complete Comprehensive Nursing Assessments 
and Oversight Consultations. 
Doppler Assessment 
An assessment of the blood flow in the main arteries of the lower leg using 
a portable Doppler ultrasound machine. 
Double Billing 
“Double Billing” is the act of charging or invoicing ACC more than once for 
a service or service item code in relation to a Client that is within scope of 
the Services: 
• 
Under this Contract; and/or 
• 
Under any other contract or arrangement, 
Whether by the Supplier or by one or more Subcontractors. 
Enrolled Nurse 
A person who has a recognised Enrolled Nurse qualification and has 
registration as described under the Health Practitioners Competence 
Assurance Act 2003. 
General 
Practice 
Team 
The General Practice Team where the Client is enrolled as a patient or that 
the Client has otherwise chosen to provide their personal health services 
and co-ordinate their health care. 
Good 
Industry 
Practice 
is the exercise of the due care, skill and diligence, and to the appropriate 
professional or industry standard, as would be expected from a leading 
supplier or person in the relevant industry. 
Nurse Practitioner 
A person who has a Nurse Practitioner’s current Annual Practising 
Certificate issued by the Nursing Council of New Zealand and works within 
the scope of practice as defined by the Health Practitioners Competence 
Assurance Act 2003. 
Registered Nurse 
A Registered Nurse has a current Annual Practising Certificate issued by the 
Nursing Council of New Zealand and works within the scope of practice as 
defined by the Health Practitioners Competence Assurance Act 2003. 
Secondary Supplier 
A Secondary Supplier is one that is not currently providing treatment to the 
Client.  A Secondary Supplier may be called upon to complete a 
Comprehensive Nursing Assessment or become a treating Supplier when a 
Client transfers location or changes Supplier. 
Service Provider 
A Registered Nurse, Enrolled Nurse or Nurse Practitioner who provides the 
service to a Client. Provider also has the same meaning. 
Subsequent Injury 
An injury that has cover under a separate claim to the original injury and 
requires Nursing Services. 
Telehealth 
The use of information or communication technologies to deliver health 
care when Clients and care providers are not in the same physical location. 

--- PAGE 34 ---
 
Nursing Services Service Schedule 1 July 2026 
Page 34 of 34 
For this Service Schedule, Telehealth relates to real-time videoconferencing 
interactions and telephone consultations. Telehealth excludes electronic 
messaging e.g. texts and emails. 
A Telehealth consultation is to replace an in-person visit so it does not 
include a quick triage or check-in phone calls. 
 
