Travel Policy for Providers
Source: https://www.acc.co.nz/assets/provider/supplier-road-travel-guidelines.pdf
Dated 3 March 2025 (cover date on PDF fetched 4 Aug 2026).
ACC policy on when and how suppliers/providers may claim travel costs to deliver services to ACC clients (provider travel — distinct from client/patient travel assistance).

Travel Policy for Providers 3 March 2025

3 Introduction ACC contributes towards provider travel where the contract for services with ACC allows this or where ACC has agreed that it will contribute towards the travel. Purpose This document sets out ACC’s policy on provider travel and describes the responsibilities of suppliers (contract holders) and providers. It also sets out when and how to claim for travel costs. This document may be updated by ACC from time to time. If there is any conflict or inconsistency between this document and a contract for services with ACC (including its service schedules), the contract takes precedence. Supplier’s responsibilities We expect suppliers to: • have enough providers based in each of the supplier’s contracted geographical areas to deliver services to ACC clients in those areas • send the closest provider to deliver services to ACC clients (unless there are clinical reasons for sending another provider) • ensure their providers understand ACC’s expectations regarding travel including: o using and invoicing only for the most direct route practicable o coordinating client appointments to minimise travel o offering telehealth where this is available and clinically appropriate o only invoicing us for the actual time spent travelling • have systems and processes in place to ensure that travel invoiced to ACC is consistent with this policy and accurate • on request, provide ACC with information to support invoicing for provider travel including receipts for any travel claimed. Suppliers may only deliver services outside the supplier’s contracted geographical areas where ACC has specifically approved the provider’s travel. Where the contract for services with ACC does not require ACC to contribute towards provider travel, the supplier must obtain ACC’s approval before any travel that the supplier wishes to claim travel costs for. ACC’s approval will specify what travel is covered and how much we will pay. ACC may contribute towards provider travel that is not covered by this policy. In these circumstances, the supplier must obtain ACC’s approval before any travel. ACC’s approval will specify what travel is covered and how much we will pay.

4 When we’ll pay for travel ACC contributes towards provider travel where the travel is: • needed to deliver services to ACC clients • by the most direct route practical from the supplier’s base/facility or the provider’s home (whichever is closest to the client) • only for actual time spent travelling to see ACC clients (not for any down time or breaks between appointments/visits). What we’ll pay for travel ACC’s contribution rates for provider travel are specified in the contract for services. There may be some difference in rates depending on the service. Please see the service schedules in the contract for services for the travel distance and travel time rates, and service item code for the contracted service. The amount ACC contributes towards provider travel depends on the distance travelled and the time taken. Different rules apply depending on whether the travel is to deliver services to ACC clients inside or outside the provider’s geographical areas. A provider’s geographical areas are the areas the supplier’s base/facility and provider’s home are located in. The supplier’s base/facility is a place a provider could deliver services to a client from. If a location is not available to deliver such services (for example, the supplier’s corporate headquarters), it is not a base/facility for the purposes of this policy. A provider may deliver services to ACC clients outside their geographical areas. However, where a provider travels outside the geographical areas of their base/facility or home, ACC will only contribute to the provider’s travel in accordance with the ‘Clients outside the provider’s geographical areas’ section of this policy set out below. For the purposes of this policy, the boundaries for geographical areas match the boundaries for territorial authorities (there are 67 territorial authorities comprising 13 city councils including the Auckland council, 53 district councils, and the Chatham Islands territory). The boundaries for territorial authorities are maintained by Statistics New Zealand – see Geographic Boundary Viewer . A. Travel distance ACC will contribute towards provider travel as set out below. We recommend that providers use a distance calculator or app to accurately calculate travel distance. Clients inside the provider’s geographical areas Step one : Determine start and end point for travel. The start and end point for provider travel inside the provider’s geographical areas is the place with the shortest travel distance between the supplier’s base/facility or the provider’s home (whichever is closest to the client) and the first/last client. The start and end point can be different – for example, the start point could be the supplier’s base/facility, and the end point could be the provider’s home.

5 Step two : Calculate travel distance • total all kilometres travelled for all clients for the travel period • deduct the first 20 kilometres per day from this amount • divide the balance by the total number of clients (including non-eligible clients) to get the kilometres per client • multiply the kilometres per client by the current travel distance rate (the travel distance rate may change from time to time) by using the TD10 service item code suffix and invoice this amount against each eligible client • do not invoice ACC for non-eligible travel services (for example, non-ACC clients, services where travel is not paid or is included in the service pricing) • where a provider delivers services to ACC clients inside and outside their geographical areas, inside travel ends at the last client inside the provider’s geographical areas and outside travel starts at the boundary of the outside geographical areas. Clients outside the provider’s geographical areas Step one : Determine start and end point for travel. The start and end point for provider travel outside the provider’s geographical areas is the boundary of the ‘outside’ geographical areas the provider is delivering services in. Step two : Calculate travel distance • total all kilometres travelled for all clients for the travel period • divide the balance by the total number of clients (including non-eligible clients) to get the kilometres per client • multiply the kilometres per client by the current travel distance rate (the travel distance rate may change from time to time) by using the TD10 service item code suffix and invoice this amount against each eligible client • do not invoice ACC for non-eligible travel services (for example, non-ACC clients, services where travel is not paid or is included in the service pricing). B. Travel time ACC will contribute towards provider travel as set out below. We recommend that providers use a time calculator or app to accurately calculate travel time. Please note that ACC currently has two service item code suffixes for travel time – TT1 and TT5. Only use the TT1 service item code suffix. The TT5 service item code suffix is used by suppliers that have agreed arrangements different to those set out in this policy. These arrangements are being phased out. Eventually, the TT5 service item code suffix will be deleted.

6 Clients inside the provider’s geographical areas Step one : Identify the total time spent travelling to and from all clients (including non-ACC clients) inside the provider’s geographical areas during the travel period. Do not include any time not spent traveling such as time spent eating lunch or time spent waiting due to arriving early. Step two : Calculate travel time • total all travel time for all clients for the travel period • deduct the first 30 minutes per day from this amount • divide the total time by the total number of clients (including non-eligible clients) to get the time per client • multiply the time per client by the current travel time rate (the travel time rate may change from time to time) by using the TT1 service item code suffix and invoice this amount against each eligible client • do not invoice ACC for non-eligible travel services (for example, non-ACC clients, services where travel is not paid or is included in the service pricing) • where a provider delivers services to ACC clients inside and outside their geographical areas, inside travel ends at the last client inside the provider’s geographical areas and outside travel starts at the boundary of the outside geographical areas. Clients outside the provider’s geographical areas Step one : Identify the total time spent travelling to and from all clients (including non-ACC clients) outside the provider’s geographical areas during the travel period. Do not include any time not spent traveling such as time spent eating lunch or time spent waiting due to arriving early. The start and end time for provider travel outside the provider’s geographical areas is when crossing the boundary of the ‘outside’ geographical areas the provider is delivering services in. Step two : Calculate travel time • total all travel time for all clients for the travel period • divide the total time by the total number of clients (including non-eligible clients) to get the time per client • multiply the time per client by the current travel time rate (the travel time rate may change from time to time) by using the TT1 service item code suffix and invoice this amount against each eligible client • do not invoice ACC for non-eligible travel services (for example, non-ACC clients, services where travel is not paid or is included in the service pricing).

7 Examples A. Clients inside the provider’s geographical areas A provider visits six clients in their geographical areas and travels a total of 58 kilometres and 1 hours and 5 minutes (i.e., 65 minutes). Services provided to two of the clients are not eligible. The travel distance rate is $0.78 per kilometre and the travel time rate is $144.60 per hour. Calculate travel distance • 58 kilometres – first 20 kilometres = 38 kilometres • 38 kilometres ÷ 6 clients = 6.3 kilometres per client • 6.3 kilometres per client @ $0.78 travel distance rate = $4.91 per eligible client Calculate travel time • 65 minutes – first 30 minutes = 35 minutes • 35 minutes ÷ 6 clients = 5.83 minutes per client • 5.83 minutes per client @ $144.60 per hour = $14.05 per eligible client. B. Clients outside the provider’s geographical areas A provider visits five clients outside their geographical areas and travels a total of 64 kilometres and 1 hours and 20 minutes (i.e., 85 minutes) in the outside areas. Services provided to one of the clients are not eligible. The travel distance rate is $0.78 per kilometre and the travel time rate is $144.60 per hour. Calculate travel distance • 64 kilometres (do not include any travel to and from the boundary of the outside geographical areas the provider is delivering services in) • 64 kilometres ÷ 5 clients = 12.8 kilometres per client • 12.8 kilometres per client @ $0.78 travel distance rate = $9.98 per eligible client Calculate travel time • 85 minutes (do not include any travel to and from the boundary of the outside geographical areas the provider is delivering services in) • 85 minutes ÷ 5 clients = 17 minutes per client • 17 minutes per client @ $144.60 per hour = $40.97 per eligible client.

8 C. Clients both inside and outside the provider’s geographical areas A provider visits two eligible clients inside their geographical areas and travels a total of 70 kilometres and 1 hour (i.e., 60 minutes). The provider then travels 3 kilometres and 5 minutes from the final client in their geographical areas to the boundary of the outside geographical areas (ACC doesn’t pay for this travel). The provider visits two eligible clients outside their geographical areas and travels a total of 15 kilometres and 30 minutes. The provider then travels 8 kilometres and 15 minutes back from the boundary of the outside geographical areas to the supplier’s base/facility (ACC doesn’t pay for this travel). The travel distance rate is $0.78 per kilometre and the travel time rate is $144.60 per hour. Calculate travel distance inside the provider’s geographical areas • 70 kilometres – first 20 kilometres = 50 kilometres • 50 kilometres ÷ 2 clients = 25 kilometres per client • 25 kilometres per client @ $0.78 travel distance rate = $19.50 per eligible client Calculate travel time inside the provider’s geographical areas • 60 minutes – first 30 minutes = 30 minutes • 30 minutes ÷ 2 clients = 15 minutes per client • 15 minutes per client @ $144.60 per hour = $36.15 per eligible client Calculate travel distance outside the provider’s geographical areas • 15 kilometres (do not include any travel distance from (a) the last client inside the provider’s geographical areas to the boundary of the outside geographical areas or (b) the boundary of the outside geographical areas to the provider’s next stop (this could be the next client back inside the provider’s geographical areas or the supplier’s base/facility or the provider’s home) • 15 kilometres ÷ 2 clients = 7.55 kilometres per client • 7.5 kilometres per client @ $0.78 travel distance rate = $5.85 per eligible client Calculate travel time outside the provider’s geographical areas • 30 minutes (do not include any travel distance from (a) the last client inside the provider’s geographical areas to the boundary of the outside geographical areas or (b) the boundary of the outside geographical areas to the provider’s next stop (this could be the next client back inside the provider’s geographical areas or the supplier’s base/facility or the provider’s home) • 30 minutes ÷ 2 clients = 15 minutes per client • 15 minutes per client @ $144.60 per hour = $36.15 per eligible client.

9 What information to include in the invoice for travel All invoices must be provided in accordance with the contract for services. When invoicing for travel, the invoice must contain the following information: • purchase order (if one has been issued) • provider’s ACC Provider ID • names of all clients and associated claim numbers • date(s) on which travel occurred • service item code for the contracted service (for example, if you are providing training for independence services, use TITD10 for travel distance and TITT1 for travel time) • total travel distance (inside and outside geographical areas), total travel time, number of clients and number of eligible clients. ACC services are priced exclusive of GST. It is the supplier’s responsibility to ensure that GST is claimed correctly. If a service is already inclusive of GST, do not add this again. To be eligible to claim GST on any service, the supplier must be registered for GST and submit an invoice with GST number clearly shown.
