Vocational Rehabilitation Services

Operational Guidelines

May 2026. This is a living document and will be updated as and when required.

Introduction

Welcome to the Vocational Rehabilitation Services Operational Guidelines. This document is intended as both a guideline for those working to deliver Vocational Rehabilitation Services and as a framework document for ACC.

These guidelines apply to all professions delivering services under the Vocational Rehabilitation Services contract across all geographic regions. These Operational Guidelines should be read in conjunction with the Standard Terms and Conditions document and the Service Schedule for Vocational Rehabilitation Services [VOC]. Services must comply with the Vocational Rehabilitation Service Schedule. Where there are inconsistencies between the Operational Guidelines and the Vocational Rehabilitation Service Schedules, the Service Schedule takes precedence.

Service Principles

Vocational Rehabilitation Services are delivered in line with the following principles:
- Rehabilitation can be supported through recovery at work, with employers playing a key role in supporting safe and sustainable return-to-work.
- Services are person-centred, recognising that Clients have different needs, barriers, strengths and levels of complexity.
- Effective communication and collaboration across the Client's recovery team (Client, whānau, employer, treating Providers and ACC) is essential.
- Right service, right time, ensuring services are delivered only when required and at the appropriate level and intensity.

Vocational Rehabilitation Services Overview

The purpose of Vocational Rehabilitation Services is to support Clients who have a covered injury and are entitled to Vocational Rehabilitation to: remain at work; return to work; move into alternative employment, or; become work ready or vocationally independent. VOC services are delivered by an interdisciplinary team of health and non-health professionals and are tailored to address work-related barriers impacting a Client's ability to safely and sustainably engage in employment.

Service Types and Service Components

The VOC contract is made up of 3 key service groupings, in which 3 of the services (SAW, BTW and PTE) each has additional service components available.
Services: Stay at Work (SAW) Service and Standalone Workplace Assessment Service; Back to Work (BTW) Service and Job Search Service; Pathways to Employment (PTE) Service.
Service Components: Work Specific Functional Rehabilitation; Obtain Work Trial; Medical Certification Consultation; Computer and Vocational Training.

Roles and responsibilities

Expectations for Suppliers: Suppliers are experts in the vocational rehabilitation needs of injured Clients and are responsible for achieving the Service outcome for the Client within the context of the service. Suppliers will ensure cost-effective and efficient use of funding. Service Providers shall work together with other members of the Client's recovery team.

Cultural Safety and Competency: ACC is committed to ensuring our Clients and their whānau are welcomed into culturally safe environments where they receive appropriate and equitable health care. ACC has two key resources to support Suppliers and Providers in delivering culturally safe care: Kawa Whakaruruhau, ACC's Cultural Safety policy; and Te Whānau Māori me ō mahi, ACC's cultural competency guidance.

Expectations for ACC: ACC is responsible for managing the Client's entitlements, approving all VOC service approvals, reviewing and acknowledging receipt of reports within the specified timeframes, and the cost-effective and efficient funding of VOC.

Interdisciplinary team: VOC Suppliers are required to maintain, at a minimum, a core team in each of their approved regions: Health Professional Service Providers - Occupational Therapist, Physiotherapist (optional: Psychologist, Social Worker, Registered Nurse, Nurse Practitioners, Medical Practitioner); Non-health Service Providers (required for BTW and PTE only) - Career Practitioner or Vocational Counsellor (optional: Recruitment Consultant, Māori Practitioner).

Returning to Working Life

ACC Act 2001 Section 103: Ability to engage in Pre-Injury Employment. ACC may ask for an assessment from a suitably qualified vocational medical assessor to determine a Client's ability to return to their pre-injury employment role. If a Client is assessed as being able to safely and sustainably engage in their pre-injury role, whether they still hold that employment or not, then weekly compensation support will cease.

The Vocational Independence Journey

When a Client is unable to work due to their injury, the initial focus is usually on supporting them to return to, or regain fitness for, their current or pre-injury employment role. For some Clients, a more appropriate outcome is to help prepare them to be 'work ready' for alternative employment at 30 hours or more per week - this rehabilitation outcome is known as Vocational Independence (VI).

ACC will arrange two assessments to understand what types of alternative employment is suitable for the Client: 1. Initial Occupational Assessment (IOA) undertaken by an occupational assessor. 2. Initial Medical Assessment (IMA) undertaken by a VMS assessor to determine whether the types of work identified in the IOA are, or are likely to be, medically sustainable.

If the Client remains unfit for the pre-injury employment role when all the agreed vocational rehabilitation has been completed, ACC will arrange two further assessments to formally assess the Client's VI: 3. Vocational Independence Occupational Assessment (VIOA). 4. Vocational Independence Medical Assessment (VIMA). If, after these assessments, the client is determined to be vocationally independent, ACC will issue a decision and the Client's weekly compensation support will cease after three months. The Client will still be eligible to receive other entitlements aside from weekly compensation and vocational rehabilitation (e.g. treatment, social rehabilitation etc).

Referral Process

Eligibility criteria: ACC will consider providing vocational rehabilitation to help a Client achieve a specific vocational outcome provided they have a covered personal injury and is either: entitled to weekly compensation or Loss of Potential Earnings (LOPE); likely to be entitled to weekly compensation if we don't provide vocational assistance; on parental leave and incapacitated as the result of a covered injury; or no longer entitled to weekly compensation because they've reached the NZ Superannuation Qualifying Age (NZSQA).

Supplier acceptance of the referral: when a Supplier receives a referral, they must determine their capacity to provide a quality service in the required timeframe, check that the referral information is complete, notify ACC if they need to decline the referral or need additional information, and ensure the referral is for the service type they are contracted to provide within their approved TLAs.

Supplier decline of referral: Suppliers are expected to accept all referrals. Suppliers may decline a referral when there is a: Conflict of Interest; Lack of Supplier capacity at the time of referral; Insufficient information to accept the referral; or the Supplier is not approved to deliver the service within the Client's region. A referral must not be returned due to the outcome referred for being difficult or the Client being considered as complex.

Service Delivery

Standalone Workplace Assessment: requested when ACC needs to understand the Client's pre-injury job tasks when a Client may be unlikely to return to their pre-injury job OR the client has simple equipment requirements to be able to remain at or start work.

Stay at Work (SAW) Services: for Clients trying to achieve return-to-work outcomes with their pre-injury employer. All Clients enter the SAW service at stage 1, which requires prior approval from ACC. Stage 1 provides the Supplier with resources to complete a worksite assessment, develop a plan, establish agreement/sign off and educate the Client and employer. SAW Stage 2 (no prior approval required) focuses on complex issues or barriers to rehabilitation. SAW Stage 3 (requires prior approval) is for more complex Clients requiring intensive multidisciplinary input. Up to three Exceptional packages may be approved by ACC beyond Stage 3.

Back to Work (BTW) Services: for Clients whose covered injury prevents them from returning to their pre-injury job and who need assistance to regain capacity to engage in new work or become work ready. Delivered in the same staged structure as SAW (Stage 1, 2, 3, Exceptional Services).

Pathways to Employment (PTE) Services: for Clients with complex needs who are usually managed by ACC's Partnered Recovery team, providing an increased level of provider input. Delivered in the same staged structure as SAW/BTW.

Work Specific Functional Rehabilitation: Under the SAW, BTW and PTE services, Suppliers may arrange functional rehabilitation when a Client's recovery cannot be managed through a graduated return to work, work trial or treatment by either a Physiotherapist, Occupational Therapist or Psychologist. Functional Rehabilitation must be delivered by a Physiotherapist, Occupational Therapist or Psychologist who is registered with the relevant professional body.

Obtain Work Trials: can be used as a component of the BTW or PTE service to help a Client achieve return-to-work goals. A Client is eligible for an Obtain Work Trial if the Client is receiving services within either a Back to Work Two or above or Pathways to Employment Two or above programme. Must be delivered by a Physiotherapist, Occupational Therapist or Vocational Consultant registered with the relevant professional body.

Job Search Service: offered to Clients who are considered Vocationally Independent and provides additional support in helping them seek and secure employment prior to the weekly compensation entitlement stopping. The Job Search must be provided over a 12-week period from the date of referral acceptance.

Vocational Rehabilitation Equipment: may be recommended to ACC by a provider following a work site assessment. If the equipment item is required as a result of a covered injury and will provide no additional benefit to the employer, ACC can consider funding the full cost of the item if it will support the client to achieve a return-to-work outcome. Standard work-related items (e.g. trade tools, clothing, work boots, helmets) are specifically excluded from MRES.

Supplier Quality and Performance Reporting: Suppliers provide ACC with 6 monthly reporting, including separate reporting for Clients who identify as Māori, used in the ACC Six-monthly Vocational Rehabilitation Services report for monitoring performance in relation to Outcomes for Māori.

Travel: Provider travel distance and time can be invoiced where the travel distance is greater than 150km for the return trip (per claim). Travel distance and time under 150km cannot be invoiced separately or using other VOC service item codes.

Source: Vocational Rehabilitation Services Operational Guidelines, May 2026, www.acc.co.nz/assets/contracts/vrs-og.pdf.
